---
title: Tuesday, 2019-09-03 {#2019903:S}
---

Let's write up a proof that quintics are unsolvable.

If $F \subset K$ is an inclusion of a subfield, we write $\Aut(K/F)$ for the group of those field automorphisms of $K$ which fix each point of $F$.

Given a subfield $F\subset \bC$, and a polynomial $f \in F[x]$, we write $F(f(x))$ for the miminal subfield of $\bC$ containing each root of $f$, and call this the *splitting field*. (This notation is nonstandard).

We note that we can construct a field equivalent to the splitting field iteratively, by considering a factor $p(x)$ of $f(x)$ which is irreducible in $F[x]$,
and passing to the extension $F \into Frac(F[\alpha]/(p(\alpha)))$.
Now $p$ splits as $(x-\alpha)p'(x)$, and by iterating this construction we reach a field equivalent to the splitting field.
(This is an exercise in ring theory).

Now fix a polynomial $f$, and suppose its roots can be expressed by radicals.
Write $F = \bQ(f(x))$
Then we can find some series of field extensions $\bQ \subset K_1 \subset K_2 \dots K_n \subset \bQ$ such that $F \subset K_n$, and each extension $K_{m} \subset K_{m+1}$
is given on the form $K_{m+1} = K_{m}(x^k -a a)$ for some $k \in \nB, a \in K_m$.
(Corresponding to each iterated root we have to take to find the roots of $f$).

Now consider each group $\Aut(K_n/K_m)$. Clearly we have inclusions $\Aut(K_n/K_m) \into \Aut(K_n/K_{m-1})$.
So we have a sequence of subgroups

$0 \into \Aut(K_n/K_{n-1}) \into \dots \into \Aut(K_n/K_1) \into \Aut(K_n/\bQ)$

There is a map $\Aut(K_n/K_{m}) \to \Aut(K_{m+1}/K_m)$
To verify this, we have to show that an automorphism which fixes $K_m$ will map $K_{m+1}$ into itself.
$K_{m+1}$ is generated by the solutions to $x^k + a = 0$ for some $a \in K_m$, and these roots are clearly mapped to each other by any field automorphism which fixes $K_m$.

It is also clear that the kernel of this map is $\Aut(K_n/K_{m+1})$
Hence we have a quotient $\Aut(K_n/K_{m})/\Aut(K_n/K_{m+1}) =: G_m$, which is mapped injectively into $\Aut(K_{m+1}/K_m)$.


Suppose $\{k_i}$ is the set of $k$s necessary to use. Note that is it finite.
We may as well suppose we start by adding all the $k_i$th roots of unity, for each $k_i$.

Suppose $K_{m+1} = K_{m}(x^k -1)$. Then an element $\Aut(K_{m+1}/K_m)$ is determined by a permutation of the $k$ $k$th roots of unity.
For this to be multiplicative, it must be a group automorphism of $C_k$, the cyclic group of $k$ elements.
The group of such automorphisms is well known to be abelian.

Suppose $K_{m+1} = K_m(x^k -a)$. Then an element $\Aut(K_{m+1}/K_m)$ is determined by a permutation of the $k$ roots of $a$.
Let $\alpha$ be a fixed $k$th root of $a$.
Then each of the other roots has the form $\alpha \xi_i$, for $\xi_0, \dots \xi_{k-1}$ the $k$th roots of unity.
Now for an automorphism $f$, $f(\alpha\xi_i) = f(\alpha)f(\xi_1)^i$, so $f$ is determined by its value on $\alpha$, since each $\xi_i$ is already in $K_m$.
We also see that $f(\alpha)$ must equal $\alpha\xi_1^{i_f}$ for some $i_f$, just because all roots have this form.
Hence each automorphism acts by $x \mapsto x \xi_1^i$, for some $i$. So the automorphism group is $C_k$.

Now we see that each $G_m$ is abelian, since it is a subgroup of an abelian group.

$0 \into \Aut(K_n/K_{n-1}) \into \dots \into Au(K_n/K_1) \into \Aut(K_n/\bQ)$

has the property that each inclusion has an abelian quotient.
Now consider the map $\Aut(K_n/\bQ) \to \Aut(F/\bQ)$ given by restriction.
This map is well defined, since clearly any root of $f$ is sent to another root under a field automorphism.
We wish to show that it is surjective. So let an automorphism $\phi \in \Aut(F)$ be given.

Let $\omega_1, \dots, \omega_\ell$ be a basis for $K_n$ over $\bQ$.
Clearly each $\omega_i$ is algebraic over $\bQ$.
For each $\omega_i$, let $p_i(x)$ be a minimal polynomial for $\omega_i$ over $\bQ$.
Set $P(x) = p_1(x)p_2(x)\dots p_\ell(x)$.
Now we claim that $\bQ(P(x)) = K_n$.
Note that

Lastly, consider the polynomial $p(x) = x^5-2x+1$.
$\Aut(\bQ(p(x))/\bQ)$ can be identified with a subgroup of $S_5$, corresponding to permutations of the five roots.
Note that $p(x)$ has three real roots, so the subgroup contains a transposition, namely complex conjugation.
Moreover, the subgroup has order divisible by five, by (abstract stuff). So it contains an element of order five, i.e a $5$-cycle.
Hence it is all of $S_5$.
But $S_5$ does not admit such a sequence of normal subgroups - the only normal subgroup of $S_5$ is $A_5$, which is simple and not abelian.
So by the above, the roots of this polynomial cannot be obtained be iterated extraction of roots.
