---
title: Monday, 2019-06-03 {#2019603:S}
---
Continuing earlier thoughts on ultracategories vs Pyknotic categories.
See [Thursday, 2019-05-09](/content/2019/05/20190509.md)

In fact, Lurie treats this for the 1-categorical case in the paper,
showing that the $2$-category of ultracategories and left ultrafunctors
is mapped fully faithfully into the $2$-category of stacks of categories
on $\CHaus$. (Lurie presents this using fibrations over $\CHaus$, but
there is no essential need for this once we have $\infty$-categorical
language - as long as we don't meet any lax fucntors, we're good).

Conjecture:

Let $\Ult^L \to \Fun(\CHaus^{op},\Cat)$ be the embedding at hand. Then
the essential image consists of precisely those sheaves which preserve
all products, not just the finite ones.

This seems to square with the presentation of ultra-infty-categories
Lurie uses, as well as Scholze's comment that once one restrict to a
suitable smaller site (*extremely disconnected*, I think), the sheaf
condition is just preservation of finite products.

However, it does not seem to combine nicely with the condition that
ultracategories be given by *locally* Cartesian fibrations - this seems
to suggest that our functors should be lax. (?) And the laxness really
seems to be an essential property, if the Fubini transformation is not
supposed to be an equivalence.

The difference seems to be in which type of ultrastructure: In Lurie's
definition of ultra-$\infty$-categories, the fiber $\cl{C}_{\beta S}$ is
supposed to be equivalent to $\cl{C}^S$ - which is equivalent to
*ultrafunctors* $\beta S \to \cl{C}$. But in the model being treated in
the paper, we are thinking of *left* ultrafunctors, which is a bigger
category. This should explain the difference. In particular, the above
conjecture is *false*. It still seems probable that being an
ultracategory can be measured at the level of
$\cl{C}(\beta S) \to \cl{C}^S$ - but this may not be a very clean
definition.

An idea is to characterize ultracategories $\cl{C}$ inside Pyknotic
categories by some property of the functor $\Hom(\cl{C},-)$, since this
is supposed to give certain categories of sheaves - although it may only
detect the sets or groupoids of sheaves or some nonsense.

This project may be helped by looking into enriched $\infty$-categories .

Note from Barwick-Haine on Pyknotic sets: since a presheaf of $Estn$ is
a sheaf iff it preserves products, we may view the category of Pyknotic
spaces as the nonabelian derived category of the category of Stonean
spaces. Stonean spaces are complete Boolean algebras, which points to
the connection with logic.
