Tuesday, 2019-06-04 {#2019604:S}
===================

An idea on ultracategories/pyknotic categories:

The property of a pyknotic category being an ultracategory somehow has
to do with an object $X \in \cl{C}(\beta I)$ being determined somehow by
each of the projections $\cl{C}(i)(X) \in \cl{C}(*)$, for each
$i: * \to I \into \beta I$.

The problem of course is that $I$ is not really in $\CHaus$ (or $Estn$
or whatever). But each finite subset is, so we may consider some sort of
axiom like this:

A sheaf is *continuous* if it preserves filtered colimits.

We remark that
$\colim_{I_0 \subset I, I_0 \text{ finite}} I_0 = \beta I$ if we compute
the limit in $CHaus$.

But then this is still not quite right - there should be a functor from
$\cl{C}^n = \lim_{I_0} \cl{C}(I_0)$ to $\cl{C}(\beta I)$, but it
shouldn't be an equivalence.

We can ask that it's a split adjoint, as we have considered before. This
version of that condition is at least somewhat more natural in the
general context of sheaves of categories.

According to this mathoverflow answer:
<https://mathoverflow.net/a/29946/104929>, an adjunction "splits" in
this sense if and only if one adjoint is fully faithful. (Probably I
already knew that..) So we can introduce this axiom:

A sheaf of ($\infty$-)categories is *pseudocontinuous* if each functor
$\cl{C}(\colim_i X_i) \to \lim_i \cl{C}(X_i)$ admits a fully faithful
*left* adjoint, (in other words, it is a *co*-localization).

Then we can formulate this conjecture: The category of
ultra-($\infty$-)categories and left ultrafunctors is equivalent to the
full subcategory of pyknotic ($\infty$)-categories, spanned by those
pyknotic categories which are pseudocontinuous.

(Or maybe we only require this for $\beta X = \colim_{X_0 \subset X}$?)

Perhaps a better question is how to develop ultracategory theory in this
setting: How to build categorical ultrastructures? How to find the
category of ultrafunctors between two categories (may be related to the
above.)
