---
title: Wednesday, 2017-07-05 {#2017705:S}
tags: Functional Analysis, FunkAn, Banach space
---
Functional Analysis
-------------------

Catching up on functional analysis during the summer break. Writing up
key results/definitions. Perhaps this should be in topic notes?

Given a Banach space $X$ and a *closed* subspace $M$, we can endow $X/M$
with the norm $$\norm{[x]} = \inf\{\norm{x+m} \mid x \in X,\ m \in M\}$$

This is a norm, and $X/M$ is a Banach space.

The quotient map $\pi: X \to X/M$ is (norm) continuous. Furthermore,
each map $X \to Y$ of Banach spaces killing $M$ factors through $\pi$ in
a unique way.

In addition, $\norm{f} = \norm{\bar{f}}$

From algebra, each such map factors in a unique way as a *linear* map.
We need only check that this map is continuous as long as the original
is.

Let $f: X \to Y$ be such a map, and $\bar{f}$ be the induced one. Now
let $\norm{[x]} = 1$. Then
$\norm{\bar{f}([x])} = \norm{f(x)} \leq \norm{f}\norm{x}$ So it is
enough to show that $[x]$ has representatives with norm arbitrarily
close to $1$. But since $1 = \norm{[x]}$ is the infimum of norms of
representatives, this is immediate.

This establishes $\norm{\bar{f}} \leq \norm{f}$

To see the other direction, it will suffice to show $\norm{\pi} = 1$.
Then $\norm{f}\norm{\pi} = \norm{f} \leq \norm{\bar{f}}$.

The first direction actually implies $\norm{\pi} \leq 1$, but also this
is direct. Now take a sequence of $[x]_i$ with
$\norm{[x]_i} \uparrow 1$. Each of these has a representative with
$\norm{x_i} \leq 1$, and this implies $\norm{\pi} \geq 1$.

Given a family $T_a$ of operators in $\cl{L}(X,Y)$, $X$ (and $Y$?) a
Banach space. If they are "pointwise uniformly bounded", ie for each $x$
we have $\sup\{\norm{T_a(x)}\} < \infty$, then
$\sup\{\norm{T_a}\} < \infty$, ie they are uniformly bounded.

This is deep magic. Follows from Baire Category thm.

If $F \in \cl{L}(X,Y)$ is surjective, $X,Y$ Banach spaces, then it is
open.

If $F \in \cl{L}(X,Y)$ is bijective, it is a linear homemorphism
(isomorphism of Banach spaces)

If $X,Y$ Banach spaces, and $F: X \to Y$ is linear with closed graph (ie
$\{(x,f(x)\} \subset X \times Y$ is closed), then $F$ is continuous.

This means that, when checking if a map is continuous by checking if
$F(x_i) \to F(x)$ when $x_i \to x$, we may assume $F(x_i)$ has a limit

A *Topological vector space* is one with a topology compatible with the
v.s. structure in the obvious sense. Determined by neighborhoods of $0$.

Given a family of sets containing $0$ intersecting to $\{0\}$, this
generates a unique vector space topology on the v.s.

If we can choose the neighborhood base at $0$ to consist of *convex*
sets, we say the TVS is *locally convex*.

Any open neighborhood of $0$ in a TVS is absorbing. Hence it defines a
seminorm on $X$. Let $(V_a)_{a\in A}$ be a neighborhood base at $0$ for
a TVS $X$, and let $p_a$ be the seminorm associated to $V_a$. Then a net
$x_\lambda$ converges in $X$ iff $p_a(x_\lambda - x) \to 0$ for all $a$.
The seminorms determine the topology. Given a separating family of
seminorms, we can also form a topology on $X$ with precisely these
convergent nets.

If we put $A = X^*$ and $p_f(x) = \left|f(x)\right|$, we obtain the
*weak topology*.

If we're looking at $X^*$, put $A = X$ and $p_x(f) = \left|f(x)\right|$,
we obtain the *weak\* topology*.

If we put $p(x) = \norm{x}$ we of course obtain the usual (norm)
topology.
