---
title: Tuesday, 2018-12-04 {#20181204:S}
---
A note about graded rings and complex orientable cohomology theories.

In the theory of complex oriented cohomology theories, one encounters a
calculation of the following form: We have a multiplicative cohomology
theory $E$, with a given element $t \in E^2(\C P^\infty)$ which goes to
the unit in $E^2(\C P^1) = E^2(S^2)$ (a complex orientation).

One then shows that $E^*(\C P^n) = E^*(\ast)[t]/(t^{n+1})$, with $t$ in
degree $2$, and we compute
$$E^*(\C P^\infty) = E^*(\colim \C P^n) = \lim E^*(\C P^n) = \lim E^*(\ast)[t]/(t^{n+1}) = E^*(\ast)[[t]]$$
However, one can easily see that this should apply to
$E^*(-) = H^*(-;\Z)$, but also
$$H^*(\C P^\infty;\Z) = \Z[t] = H^*(\ast;\Z)[t]$$ So $\Z[[t]] = \Z[t]$..
but that's clearly wrong, right?

This apparent paradox is resolved by thinking more clearly about where
the functor $E^*(-)$ takes values - the category of *graded rings*.

A *$\Z$-graded ring* $R$ consists of this data:

1.  A collection of abelian groups $\{R_n\}_{n\in\Z}$

2.  For each $n,m\in\Z$, a multiplication
    $\mu: R_n \times R_m \to R_{n+m}$

3.  Which is associative, i.e the two natural maps
    $R_n \times R_m \times R_k \to R_{n+m+k}$ agree for every
    $n,m,k\in \Z$.

4.  An element $1 \in R_0$

5.  So that $\mu(1,x) = \mu(x,1) = x$ for any $x\in R_n$, for any $n$.

A *homomorphism of $\Z$-graded rings* $R \to S$ consists of group
homomorphisms $R_n \to S_n$, preserving the unit and the multiplication
in the obvious sense.

One can of course define a notion of commutativity (and *graded
commutativity*) in this setting as well, but this is not necessary for
this discussion. One will also, in general, need a theory of graded
modules and algebras, but this is, again, unnecessary here.

If $E^*$ is a multiplicative cohomology theory, $R_n = E^n(X)$ defines a
graded ring for any space $X$. Moreover, $E^*(Y) \to E^*(X)$ is a graded
ring homomorphism for any map $X \to Y$ of spaces.

We have not defined polynomial or power series rings as graded rings
yet, but the reason why $\Z[x] = \Z[[x]]$ might already be
comprehensible: they have the *same* homogenous elements (a homogenous
element of degree $k$ is just $n x^k$ for some $n\in\Z$). In retrospect,
it can even appear obvious that $\Z[x]$ can't mean something different
than $\Z[[x]]$ when you're talking about a cohomology ring - after all,
the cohomology theory only tells you what the homogenous elements are,
the set of terms like $x^2 + 5x + 2$ is completely post hoc.

Let's give some definitions:

Let $R$ be a $\Z$-graded ring. The polynomial ring $R[t]$ has the degree
n piece $(R[t])_n$ consist of finite formal sums like
$\sum_{k\geq 0} t^k x_k$, where $x_k \in R_{n-k}$. The product and sum
are defined in the obvious way (exercise: check that the degrees work
out), and the unit is $t^0 1 \in R[t]_0$

The power series ring $R[[t]]$ has the degree n piece $(R[[t]])_n$
consist of (possibly infinite) formal sums like
$\sum_{k\geq 0} t^k x_k$, where $x_k \in R_{n-k}$. The product and sum
are defined in the obvious way (exercise: check that the degrees work
out), and the unit is $t^0 1 \in R[[t]]_0$

This clarifies two points: $\Z[[x]] = \Z[x]$ because, since $\Z$ has
nothing in negative degrees, the sums $\sum_{k\geq 0} t^k x_k$ must
terminate when $k$ becomes greater than $n$ (and in fact the only
nonzero term is when $k = n$). In general, power series and polynomial
rings in this setting agree when the degrees of the coefficient ring is
bounded below. This also answers a very reasonable followup question,
namely: why write power series ring rather than polynomial ring? The
answer is that, in the case where $E^*(\ast)$ does have elements of
unbounded negative degree, $E^*(\ast)[[t]]$ and $E^*(\ast)[t]$ differ
(and it's $E^*(\ast)[[t]]$ that gives the correct answer).

An example of this is complex $K$-theory, where
$K^0(\ast) = \Z = K^{2n}(\ast)$ (by Bott periodicity), and
$K^1(\ast) = K^{2n+1}(\ast) = 0$ (exercise). This implies that
$K^0(\C P) \simeq \Z[[t]]$ (note that this is not a graded ring!).
