Saturday, 2019-03-02 {#2019302:S}
====================

Bounded ultraspaces are a pretopos
----------------------------------

`\index{Bounded ultraspaces}`{=latex} It may be true that geometric
realization of *groupoid objects* commute with infinite products in
spaces. This would suffice to show that groupoids in $\cl{U}$ are
effective.

Let $(X_\bullet^i)_{i \in I}$ be a family of simplicial diagrams
$X_\bullet$ in $\cl{S}$, indexed by a (possibly infinite) set $I$.
Suppose each $X_\bullet^i$ is a groupoid. Then also the simplicial space
$\bullet \mapsto \prod_{i \in I} X^i_\bullet$ is a groupoid. Moreover,
$$\norm{\prod_{i \in I} X^i_\bullet} \simeq \prod_{i \in I}\norm{X^i_\bullet}$$

Let us choose strict bisimplicial sets
$\tilde{X}_\bullet^i: \Delta^{op} \to \sSet$ representing our
$X^i_\bullet$. Now we recall the following facts: There is a Quillen
equivalence $$\sSet^{\Delta^{op}}_{cSeg} \simeq \sSet_{Joyal}$$

This presents a fully faithful embedding
$$\Cat_\infty \into \Fun(\Delta^{op},\cl{S})$$ with image precisely the
complete Segal spaces. Note further that a complete Segal space coming
from an $\infty$-groupoid is also a groupoid in the sense of the
proposition. This gives us functors like
$$\cl{S} \into Gpd(\cl{S}) \into \Fun(\Delta^{op},\cl{S})$$ where each
inclusion is in fact a localization.

We observe now that the functor $\cl{S} \to \Fun(\Delta^{op},\cl{S})$ is
just the Yoneda embedding, so that geometric realization is precisely
the left adjoint to the inclusion. Hence to see that this commutes with
products in the case of groupoids, it suffices to show that a product of
localizations is again a localization.

The "completion" of a segal space carries it to its space of
isomorphisms - and it is clear that this construction is preserved even
by infinite products.

All groupoids $\cl{U} \subseteq \Fun(\Stone^{fr,op},\cl{S})$ are
effective, and the effective epimorphisms are stable under pullback.

Let $A,B \in \cl{U}$ be bounded ultraspaces. Then they admit a coproduct
$A \coprod B$ in $\cl{U}$, which is universal. In other words, given a
map $X \to A \coprod B$ of bounded ultraspaces, we have
$(A \times_{A \coprod B} X) \coprod (B \times_{A \coprod B} X) \simeq X$

$\cl{U}$ is a pretopos.

Equip $\Stone^{fr,op}$ and $\cl{S}$ with the Cartesian monoidal
structure, and consider the Day convolution product on
$\Fun^(\Stone^{fr,op},\cl{S})$.

It's given that
$(F*G)(\beta I) = \coprod_{A + B = I} F(\beta A) \times G(\beta B)$.

Now, every functor $A \in \cl{U}$ is clearly lax monoidal (even strong
monoidal) for these structures, so receives a map $I \to A$. Hence we
have $A \to (A * B) \from B$. The claim is that this is a colimit
diagram in $\cl{U}$. (Note that this is definitely not a colimit diagram
in $\Fun(\Stone^{fr,op},\cl{S})$).

This follows by the fact that $\cl{U}$ is a full subcategory of
$\CAlg(\Fun(\Stone^{fr,op},\cl{S}))$, as long as we can show that
$A * B$ is actually in $\cl{U}$, by the fact that the tensor product on
$\CAlg$ is coCartesian.

The Giry Monad
--------------

The idea is that the assigment
$X \mapsto \{\text{probability distributions on $X$}\}$ can be realized
as a monad. There are a few issues with this - it can't be a monad on
finite or countable sets, since there's clearly an uncountable
collection of probability distributions on any non-singleton set, but
for uncountable sets, there is of course the issue of sigma algebras.

The most general possible definition is this.

Let $\Meas$ be the category of measurable spaces and measurable
functions.

Let $G: \Meas \to \Meas$ be the functor which assigns to each measurable
space $(X,\Sigma)$ the set of probability measures on $X$. The
sigma-algebra on $GX$ is generated by each of the functions
$ev_U : GX \to [0,1]$ given by $ev_U(P) = P(U)$, where $U \in \Sigma$.

The monad structure on $G$ is given in the following way:
$\nu_X : X \to GX$ maps each point in $X$ to the corresponding dirac
measure. The map $\mu_X: G^2X \to GX$ is given by
$$\mu_X(P)(U) = \int_{q \in GX}ev_U(q)dP$$

There's an analogy between the "weird logic" in homotopy theory and in
probability theory/statistics. In homotopy theory, we find that we can't
ask, for instance "are $x$ and $y$ equal", but rather, must ask for the
*space of paths from $x$ to $y$*, and so on. Carrying out this
replacement in a systematic way, we get homotopy colimits, homotopy
fibers, geometric realizations, and so on.

Similarly, in probability, we find we can't ask whether two maps agree,
but only if they agree outside a null set (we could say: if they are not
distinguishable by experiment).
