---
title: Friday, 2019-03-01 {#2019301:S}
tags: Bounded ultraspaces
---

Let us attempt to prove that $\cl{U}$ is a pretopos. We must verify:

1.  $\cl{C}$ has all finite limits.

2.  $\cl{C}$ has all finite coproducts, and they are preserved by
    pullback, and disjoint.

3.  All groupoid objects in $\cl{C}$ are effective.

4.  The collection of effective epimorphisms is stable under pullback.
    Equivalently, taking colimits of groupoid objects is preserved by
    pullback.

Let us begin with this observation: Any bounded ultraspace
$\cl{E} \to \Stone^{fr}$ is automatically a full Cartesian fibration
(not just locally). Hence we may identify $\cl{U}$ with a certain full
subcategory of $\Fun(\Stone^{fr,op},\cl{S})$. Moreover, the second
condition on ultracategories is redundant in this setting, so that the
conditions that a functor $X : \Stone^{fr,op} \to \cl{S}$ defines a
bounded ultraspace can be expressed as follows:

(1) The underlying space $X(*)$ is bounded.

(2) It carries coproducts in $\Stone^{fr}$ to products in $\cl{S}$ - in
    other words, it preserves products.

Given (2), it is not too hard to see that (1) is equivalent to the a
priori stronger condition that $X(\beta I)$ is bounded for each set $I$
(here it is important that we don't work with finite spaces).

Clearly these conditions are preserved by taking finite limits, so
condition (1) holds.

For coproducts, we face the issue that coproducts and products in
$\cl{S}$ do not commute at all. For groupoid objects, sifted colimits
(such as geometric realizations) do commute with *finite* products, but
not in general infinite ones.
