Thursday, 2019-02-14 {#2019214:S}
====================

Continuing the study of $\int_{P}\Sp_{(p)} d\cl{F}$ from last time.

Let $R$ and $S$ be commutative rings. Suppose $M$ is a module over the
direct product $R \times S$. Denote
$1_R := (1,0), 1_S := (0,1) \in R\times S$. These also give
endomorphisms (at least of abelian groups) $M \to M$ by multiplication.
and $1_Rx + 1_Sx = x$, and $1_R1_S x = 1_S1_R x = 0$.

It follows that $M = N \oplus L$, with the action of $S$ on $N$ being
zero, and that of $R$ on $L$ being zero.

We have sketched a proof of:

$(R\times S)-Mod \simeq R-Mod \times S-Mod$, with the equivalence in one
direction being given by direct sum.

Suppose now $R_i$ is an infinite family of rings, and $M$ is a
$\prod_{i\in I} R_i$-module. Then we still get submodules
$N_i = 1_{R_i}M$, but it is less clear how to reassemble them, or even
if they contain all the information (since we cannot write
$1 = \sum_i 1_{R_i}$, since this sum is now infinite).

The goal of all this is of course really to find a ring $R$ so that
$\int_{I}R_i-Mod d\cl{F} = R-Mod$. The hope might be that
$\int_IR_i-Mod$ sufficed.

The real goal, of course, being this theorem for ring spectra, so that
we can say

$$\int_{P}\Sp_{(p)}d\cl{F} \simeq \int_P Mod_{S\Z_{(p)}}d\cl{F} \simeq Mod_{\int_{P}S\Z_{(p)}d\cl{F}}$$

Then this ring will hopefully turn out to be an approachable object - at
the very least it is a $H\Q$-algebra, so it should be some sort of
algebraically understandable thing.

In fact, we can (almost??) prove this:

$$\int_{P}S\Z_{(p)} \simeq S\left(\int_P\Z_{(p)}\right) \simeq H\left(\int_P\Z_{(p)}\right)$$

We will do this by showing that both the leftmost and rightmost objects
are Moore spectra for the relevant ring.

Consider the homotopy groups of the leftmost object. Since homotopy
groups commute with both filtered colimits and infinite products, it's
clear that $$\pi_{<0} \int_{P}S\Z_{(p)} = 0$$
$$\pi_0 \int_{P}S\Z_{(p)} = \int_P\Z_{(p)}$$

Note also that $\tau_{\geq 1}$ commutes with ultraproducts (and
$- \tensor H\Z$), so that
$\tau_{\geq 1}(\int_{P}S\Z_{(p)}) \tensor H\Z = \int_{P}\tau_{\geq 1}S\Z_{(p)}d\cl{F} \tensor H\Z$.

Here we have an infinite product of null-homology things. We want to say
this is also null-homology.. ??

For the second part, we just want to use Serre's theorem: the thing on
the right obviously has the right homotopy groups, but does it have the
right homology groups? Yes, because
$$H\Z \tensor H\left(\int_P\Z_{(p)}\right) \simeq H\Z \tensor H\Q \tensor H\left(\int_P\Z_{(p)}\right)$$
$$\simeq H\Q \tensor H\left(\int_P\Z_{(p)}\right) \simeq H\left(\int_P\Z_{(p)}\right)$$
since this thing is a $\Q$-module.
