---
title: Saturday, 2019-02-16 {#2019216:S}
---
The topology on $\beta I$ is the *Stone topology*. A basis of open sets
is given by $O_S = \{\mu \in \beta I \mid S \in \mu\}$, with $S$ ranging
over all subsets of $I$.

Note that $(O_S)^c = O_{S^c}$, (since the points of $\beta I$ are
*ultra*filters), so these also form a basis of closed sets.

What does it mean for $\beta I \to \beta J$ to be continuous? First,
such continuous arrows are in bijection with ordinary functions
$I \to \beta J$. The condition that $f: \beta I \to \beta J$ is
continuous is that, for each ultrafilter $\mu$, the image ultrafilter on
$\beta J$, $\{S \subset \beta J | f\inv \cap I \in \mu\}$ converges to
$f(\mu)$.

This in turn means that for each $S$ with $S \in f(\mu)$, we have
$f\inv(O_S) \cap I \in \mu$. Since $f(\mu)$ is a maximal filter, we must
have $f(\mu) = \{S \mid f\inv(O_S) \cap I \in \mu\}$.

Let $\cl{C}$ be an `\icat `{=latex}with filtered colimits and products.
Then we should construct an
ultra-`\icat `{=latex}$\pi:\cl{E} \to \Stone^{fr}$.

The objects over $\beta I$ should be:

(a) Equivalent as a category to $(\cl{C}^I)^{op}$.

(b) Somehow contain the data of choices of ultraproducts for each
    ultrafilter, i.e point in $\beta I$.

(c) Be obviously contravariantly functorial in $\beta I$.

Let $Fil(I)$ be the collection of all (not necessarily maximal) filters
on $I$, so that $\beta I \subset Fil(I)$. Note that $Fil(I)$ is a poset
with the inclusion ordering.

Attempt 1: The category over $\beta I$ consists of diagrams
$$A: Fil(I) \to \cl{C}$$ satisfying these conditions:

(a) Let $S \subset I$ be a subset. Let
    $\mu_S = \{Y \subset I \mid S \subset Y\}$. Then we have a map
    $A(\mu_S) \to \prod_{s\in S}A(\mu_{s})$. This is an equivalence.

(b) For each filter $\mu$, we have inclusions $\mu_S \subset \mu$ for
    each $S \in \mu$. This results in a map
    $$\colim_{S \in \mu}A(\mu_S) \to A(\mu)$$ (The conditions on a
    filter means this colimit is filtered). This map is an equivalence.

The idea is that $A(\mu)$ should be a colimit of the filtered diagram
corresponding to the sets in $\mu$. Denote this thing by
$\Fun'(Fil(I),\cl{C})$

It's pretty clear that the map $\Fun'(Fil(I),\cl{C}) \to \cl{C}^I$ given
by evaluating in the principal ultrafilters is an equivalence.

(The idea here is that $Fil(I)$ can be viewed as the formal completion
of $I$ under products and filtered colimits - as a poset.)

How is $Fil(-)$ functorial? Clearly want that, given
$\beta I \to \beta J$, the map $Fil(I) \to Fil(J)$ is an extension of
this. Obvious idea: given $f: \beta I \to \beta J$, let
$f: Fil(I) \to Fil(J)$ be given by
$$f(\mu) = \cap_{\lambda \supset \mu, \lambda \in \beta I} f(\lambda)$$

This is clearly an extension of $f$. Not hard to check that it maps
filters to filters, and precomposition with this defines a functor
$$\Fun'(Fil(J),\cl{C}) \to \Fun'(Fil(I),\cl{C})$$

This gives a functor
$$\Stone^{fr,op} \to \operatorname{PoSet}^{op} \into \Cat_\infty^{op} \to \Cat_\infty$$
which presents a Cartesian fibration. This fibration is our candidate
$\cl{E}$.

(May need to dualize everything).

Idea 2: Look at $\Fun(O(\beta I)^{op},\cl{C})$, and consider the
subcategory of sheaves. Not clear that this even works, since $\cl{C}$
does not a priori have enough limits.
