Wednesday, 2019-02-13 {#2019213:S}
=====================

Thinking about ultraproducts. Some of this has appeared in my topic
notes.

Let $\cl{C}$ be an with all products and filtered colimits. Let $I$ be
an index set, and let $\cl{F}$ be an ultrafilter in $I$. Let $\{X_i\}$
be an $I$-indexed collection of objects in $\cl{C}$. Then we will let
$$\int_{i \in I}X_i d\cl{F} = \int_{I}X_i d\cl{F}$$ denote the
(categorical) ultraproduct of the $X_i$ along the ultrafilter $\cl{F}$,
i.e $$\colim_{U \in \cl{F}} \prod_{i \in U}X_i$$ with the colimit being
indexed by the poset $\{U \in \cl{F}\}$ ordered by reverse inclusion.

The first piece of notation is a slight alteration to Lurie's, making
explicit which symbol is the index.

For a fixed $\cl{C}, I, \cl{F}$ as above, the formation of
$\cl{F}$-ultraproducts determines a functor (unique up to contractible
ambiguity) $$\int_{I}(-)d\cl{F}: \cl{C}^I \to \cl{C}$$

We have the following obvious proposition

Let $\cl{C},\cl{D}$ be with all products and filtered colimits. Let
$F: \cl{C} \to \cl{D}$ be a functor which preserves filtered colimits
and products. Then there is a canonical commutative diagram

In other words, such $F$ commute with the formation of ultraproducts.

Let $f_i: C_i \to D_i$ be an $I$-indexed collection of functors. Fix a
number $n \geq 0$. Then the following are equivalent:

(a) The set
    $\{i \mid h_n(f_i): h_nC_i \to h_nD_i \text{ is an equivalence}\}$
    is in $\cl{F}$.

(b) $h_n(\int_{I}f_id\cl{F}): h_n(\int_IC_id\cl{F}) \to h_n(\int_ID_id\cl{F})$
    is an equivalence.

(Here $h_n$ refers to the $n$-homotopy category. For instance $h_0 = h$)

The (a) $\Rightarrow$ (b) direction is more or less clear, since the
ultraproduct may be replaced by the expression
$$\colim_{U \subset A, U \in \cl{F}} \prod_{i \in U} f_i$$ where
$A \in \cl{F}$ is the subset in (a), and this is a colimit of products
of $n$-equivalences, so an $n$-equivalence.

Now for the other direction. First let us assume that each category
$C_i, D_i$ is nonempty. If the collection of $i$ so that this is true is
in the ultrafilter, making this replacement has no effect. On the other
hand, if it is not, the entire ultraproduct is empty on at least one
side, and it's not hard to see it will be empty on the other as well,
making the theorem trivial.

We note that a functor is an $n$-equivalence in this sense if and only
if it's essentially surjective, and induces an equivalence on
$\pi_k\Map(x,y) \to \pi_k\Map(fx,fy)$ for each $k \leq n$.

Now for each $0 \leq k \leq n$, let's form these sets:
$$S_k \subset I = \{i \mid f_i: \pi_k\Map(x,y) \to \pi_k\Map(fx,fy) \text{surjective for each $x,y$}\}$$
$$I_k \subset I = \{i \mid f_i: \pi_k\Map(x,y) \to \pi_k\Map(fx,fy) \text{injective for each $x,y$}\}$$

Furthermore, let's consider
$$E \subset I = \{i \mid f_i \text{essentially surjective}$$

Now, we claim that each of these sets is in the ultrafilter. Let us
first consider $E$. We may choose a collection of objects $d_i$ so that,
for each $i \notin E$, $d_i$ is not in the essential image. (The other
$d_i$ do not matter). Now consider the image in $\int_I D_id\cl{F}$ of
the sequence $(d_i) \in \prod D_i$. By assumption, this is in the
essential image of $\int_I f_id\cl{F}$. Say it is equivalent to
$(\int_i f_id\cl{F})(c)$

Since each $C_i$ is nonempty, we may write $c \simeq (c_i)$, where $c_i$
is some sequence in $\prod D_i$. But now by definition,
$(\int_If_id\cl{F})(c_i) = (f_i(c_i))_{i \in I}$.

Since the functor $\pi_0: \Cat_\infty \to \Set$ commutes with
ultraproducts, we have $f_i(c_i) \simeq d_i$ for almost all $i$. But
clearly the collection of such $i$ is disjoint from $E^c$, since for
$i \in E^c$, $d_i$ is not in the essential image. Hence $E \in \cl{F}$.

Now consider the set $S_k$. Here the argument is essentially the same:
for each $i$ in the complement, we choose $x_i, y_i$ and a class
$\alpha \in \pi_k\Map(fx,fy)$ not in the image. The remaining input is
the fact that the formation of mapping spaces and
$\pi_k: \cl{S} \to \Set$ commutes with ultraproducts.

To do $I_k$, we choose for each $i$ in the complement $x_i, y_i$ and two
classes $\alpha, \beta$ which are identified by the map. The injectivity
of the ultraproduct map then establishes that the complement is not in
the ultraproduct.

Lastly, the intersection of this finite collection of sets is again in
the ultraproduct.

If (b) holds for all non-principal ultrafilters, then the set in (a) is
cofinite, and vice versa.

The ultraproduct is a full equivalence of if and only if the set in (a)
is in the ultrafilter for each $n$ (but this does NOT imply that the
intersection is in the ultrafilter).

Moreover, the ultraproduct is an equivalence for all non-principal
ultrafilters if and only if for each $n$, the set in (a) is cofinite.

We could also formulate this theorem as an application of the following
fact about ultraproducts in Set:

Let $f_i: X_i \to Y_i$ be a collection of functions in Set. Then their
ultraproduct is a bijection if and only if the collection of $i$ so that
$f_i$ is a bijection is in the ultrafilter.

And the following fact about `\icats `{=latex}in particular.

The functor $\pi_0: \Cat_\infty \to Set$ preserves ultraproducts. Each
of the functors $\pi_k : \cl{S} \to \Set$ preserves ultraproducts.

For $C_i$ a collection of non-empty categories, $(x_i), (y_i)$
collections of objects, we have
$$\Map_{\int_I C_id\cl{F}}([x_i],[y_i]) \simeq \int_I \Map_{C_i}(x_i,y_i)d\cl{F}$$

Something about $\Q$-linear `\icats`{=latex}.

Given an $\E_\infty$-ring $R$, a presentable $R$-linear is an object of
$$\Mod_{E-Mod^\omega}(Pr^L_{\stab})$$

Note that $S\Q = H\Q$, so the category of $\Q$-modules can be described
both as the derived category of $Vect_\Q$, but also as the subcategory
of $\Sp$ given by those spectra which are $p$-divisible for each $p$.

Then each stable $C$ admits at most one structure of a $\Q$-linear
category, and this if and only if every multiplication by $p$ map is an
isomorphism.

Note first that the map $\Sp \to \Sp_\Q$ in $\CAlg(Pr^L_{stab})$ is an
epimorphism. Second, note that for each stable $\cl{C}$, there's a
univeral monoidal category $End(C)$ so that module structures on $C$ are
maps $\Sp_Q \to End(C)$. Now such maps are unique if they exist, because
there is exactly one map $\Sp \to End(C)$.

In fact, we always have the following diagram:

Now the only possible diagonal map is the bottom map followed by the
inclusion. Hence the inclusion must be symmetric monoidal, which is only
true if the unit is a local object. But this is equivalent to all
objects being local, so $End(C) = End(C)_\Q$.

Clearly in this case, we do get a well-defined map $\Sp_Q \to End(C)$,
so we have proved that $C$ is $\Q$-linear if and only if the
multiplication by $p$ map, $p: 1_\cl{C} \to 1_\cl{C}$ is an isomorphism.
But this is equivalent to the statement that $p: X \to X$ is an
isomorphism for each $X \in \cl{C}$.

Let $I = P$ be the set of primes. Then $\int_P \Sp_{(p)} d\cl{F}$ is a
$\Q$-linear stable .

This implies that it can be modeled by a $\Q$-linear dg-category, i.e a
dg-category enriched over $\Q$-chain complexes.

Let us think about the ring $\int_P \Z_{(p)} d\cl{F}$. This is the
endomorphism ring of the unit in $\int_P \Sp_{(p)} d\cl{F}$ (with the
caveat that it's not obvious how this becomes a symmetric monoidal
category).

Let us call this ring $A$

(a) There is an injection $Q \into A$. Essentially, each fraction $n/m$
    is in $\Z_{(p)}$ for all but finitely many $p$ (those $p$ in the
    denominator $m$), and this suffices to define this map. Hence $A$ is
    a $\Q$-algebras.

(b) As a $\Q$-vector space, it's infinite-dimensional.

(c) $A$ is not a field. For instance, the element $(p)_{p\in P}$ is not
    invertible.

(d) $A$ can be made into an ordered ring, by ordering each $\Z_{(p)}$ as
    a subring of $\Q$.

(e) Since $A$ contains $\Q$, there is an equivalence between $HA$-module
    spectra and dg-$A$-modules.
