Tuesday, 2019-02-19 {#2019219:S}
===================

`\index{Bounded ultraspaces}`{=latex} Let's get some terms on the board:

An *equivalence relation* on an object $X$ in a category $\cl{C}$ is a
subobject $R \into X \times X$ (i.e. a monomorphism) with the property
that, for each $A \in \cl{C}$, the induced subset
$$\Map(A,R) \subset \Map(A,X \times X) \cong \Map(A,X) \times \Map(A,X)$$
is an equivalence relation on $\Map(A,X)$.

An equivalence relation is *effective* if a coequalizer
$R \rightrightarrows X \times X \to C$ exists, and moreover $R$ is the
pullback $X \times_C X$.

A morphism $f: X \to C$ is an *effective epimorphism* if
$$X \times_C X \rightrightarrows X \to C$$ is a coequalizer.

We say that the coproduct of $X$ and $Y$, $X \sqcup Y$, is *disjoint* if
$X \into X \sqcup Y$ is a monomorphism, and so is $Y \into X \sqcup Y$,
and moreover the pullback $X \times_{X \sqcup Y} Y$ is an initial
object.

A *pretopos* is a $1$-category $\cl{C}$ with the following properties:

1.  $\cl{C}$ has finite limits.

2.  All equivalence relations in $\cl{C}$ are effective.

3.  $\cl{C}$ has finite coproducts, and coproducts are disjoint.

4.  The collection of effective epimorphisms is stable under pullback.

5.  The formation of finite coproducts is preserved by pullback. By this
    we mean that the pullback functor $\cl{C}_{/Y} \to \cl{C}_{/X}$
    preserves finite coproducts for each $f: X \to Y$.

A functor $\cl{C} \to \cl{D}$ between pretoposes is a *pretopos
morphism* if it preserves finite coproducts, finite limits, and
effective epimorphisms.

Let $\cl{C}$ be an . Suppose $\cl{C}$ has finite limits. A *groupoid
object* in $\cl{C}$ is a simplicial object $D: \Delta^{op} \to \cl{C}$
with the property that the map $D(\Delta^n) \to D(\Lambda^n_k)$ is an
equivalence in $\cl{C}$ for each $n\geq 2, 0\leq k \leq n$.

Here $D(\Lambda^n_k)$ is defined in the obvious way as a limit in
$\cl{C}$.

(See also HTT: 6.1.2.6 for the correct definition, and many equivalent
formulations)

We should think of a groupoid object as an internal Kan complex in
$\cl{C}$ - this is like a homotopy coherent equivalence relation.

We denote by $\Delta_+$ the augmented simplicial category, which is
$\Delta$ with an extra initial object $[-1]$

Note that $\Delta_+ \simeq \Delta^\ltri$, and
$\Delta_+^{op} \simeq (\Delta^{op})^\rtri$. In particular, colimit
diagrams of simplicial objects are augmented simplicial objects.

Let $\cl{C}$ be an , and let $D: \Delta^{op}_+ \to \cl{C}$ be an
augmented simplicial object. Then there is always a canonical
commutative diagram

We say that $D$ is a *Cech nerve* if $D|_{\Delta^{op}}$ is a groupoid,
and this diagram is a pullback.

Let $D$ be an augmented simplicial object. Then $D$ is a Cech nerve if
an only if it is right Kan extended from $(\Delta_+^{\leq 0})^{op}$

It follows that a Cech nerve is uniquely determined by the map
$u: U_0 \to U_{-1}$ We also say that it is *the Cech nerve of $u$*

A map $f: X \to Y$ is an *effective epimorphism* if it admits a Cech
nerve, which is furthermore a colimit diagram (so that $Y$ is the
geometric realization of the underlying simplicial object).

A groupoid object $X_\bullet$ is effective if it admits a geometric
realization, and the corresponding colimit diagram is a Cech nerve.
Concretely, this means the geometric realization $|X_\bullet|$ exists,
and the diagram

is a pullback.

An $\infty$-pretopos is an $\cl{C}$ with the following properties:

1.  $\cl{C}$ has all finite limits.

2.  $\cl{C}$ has all finite coproducts, and they are preserved by
    pullback, and disjoint.

3.  All groupoid objects in $\cl{C}$ are effective.

4.  The collection of effective epimorphisms is stable under pullback.
    Equivalently, taking colimits of groupoid objects is preserved by
    pullback.

A *morphism of $\infty$-pretopoi*, or just a *pretopos morphism* is a
functor which preserves finite limits, finite coproducts and effective
epimorphisms.

Disjoint coproducts means the same thing, except a *monomorphism*
$X \to Y$ is one so that $\Map(A,X) \to \Map(A,Y)$ is always the
inclusion of certain path components.

An $1$-category which is an ordinary pretopos is *not* an
$\infty$-pretopos. The problem is that groupoid objects in e.g. sets are
the same thing as groupoids, *not* equivalence relations. Given a
groupoid in sets, the geometric realization is just $\pi_0$, and the set
of morphisms is not the pullback you want (this pullback is just the
equivalence relation on the set of objects).

An object $X$ of an $\cl{C}$ is $n$-truncated if $\Map(A,X)$ is always
an $n$-truncated space.

We denote $\cl{C}^{\leq n} \subset \cl{C}$ the full subcategory of
$n$-truncated objects. Note that $\cl{C}^{\leq n}$ is always an
$n$-category.

If $\cl{C}$ is an $\infty$-pretopos, $\cl{C}^{\leq n}$ is a localization
of $\cl{C}$.

If $\cl{C}$ is a $\infty$-pretopos, $\cl{C}^{\leq 0}$ is an ordinary
pretopos.

There should be versions of this theorem for all $n$, where the
definition of $n$-pretopos should replace groupoids with a suitably
truncated notion, so that for $n=0$ you get equivalence relations.

Let $\cl{C}$ be a $1$-pretopos. Then there exists an $\infty$-pretopos
$\cl{C}^+$ so that
$\Fun^{pre}(\cl{C}^+,\cl{D}) \simeq \Fun^{pre}(\cl{C},\cl{D}^{\leq 0})$
for all $\infty$-pretoposes $\cl{D}$, naturally in $\cl{D}$.

In particular, this equivalence is classified by a pretopos morphism
$\cl{C} \to (\cl{C}^+)_{\leq 0}$.

Note that this is an equivalence of , but the right-hand side is just a
one-category.

It seems that in general $\cl{C} \to \cl{C}^+_\leq{0}$ should be an
equivalence, but I don't know how to prove this. This is claimed in
remark 8 of lecture 30x in lurie's categorical logic notes.

Now we come to the claims:

Let $CHaus$ be the ordinary category of compact Hausdorff toplogical
spaces. Let $\cl{U}$ be the of *bounded ultraspaces*, i.e ultra-with
underlying a bounded Kan complex. Then

(a) $CHaus$ is a pretopos.

(b) $\cl{U}$ is an $\infty$-pretopos.

(c) The $n$-truncated objects of $\cl{U}$ are precisely those with an
    $n$-truncated underlying Kan complex. In particular,
    $\cl{U}^{\leq 0} \simeq CHaus$, since these are precisely the
    ultrasets.

(d) The map $CHaus \to \cl{U}^{\leq 0}$ exhibits an equivalence
    $CHaus^+ \to \cl{U}$.

By remark 10 of lecture 30x, it may suffice to show that $\Mod(\cl{U})$
is an ordinary category. (If we can actually prove that remark)

Let us give the definition of $\cl{U}$ in more detail

Let $\Stone^{fr}$ denote the category of *free stone spaces*, i.e spaces
of the form $\beta I$ for a set $I$, and continuous maps between them.

Let $\pi: \cl{E} \to \Stone^{fr}$ be a locally Cartesian fibration of .
We say that $\pi$ is an *ultra-* if it satisfied the following
conditions:

(a) For each set $I$, the induced functor
    $$\cl{E}_{\beta I} \to \prod_{i \in I} \cl{E}_{\{i\}}$$ is an
    equivalence of .

(b) Given $f: X \to Y, g: Y \to Z$ in $\cl{E}$ which are locally
    $\pi$-Cartesian, if $\pi(f) : \pi X \to \pi Y$ preserves isolated
    points, then $gf$ is also locally $\pi$-Cartesian.

If $\cl{E}$ is an ultra-, we refer to $\cl{E}_*^{op}$ as the
*underlying* .

We say that an ultra-$\cl{E}$ is an *ultraspace* if $\cl{E}_*$ is a Kan
complex (which it is iff $\cl{E}_*^{op}$ is). We say that an ultraspace
is *$n$-truncated* if the underlying space is $n$-truncated, for
$0\leq n < \infty$. If an ultraspace is $n$-truncated for some $n$, we
say it is bounded.

Consider two ultra-
$$\pi: \cl{E}\to \Stone^{fr}, \pi' : \cl{E}' \to \Stone^{fr}$$ We say a
functor $F: \cl{E} \to \cl{E}'$ over $\Stone^{fr}$ is an *ultrafunctor*
if it preserves locally Cartesian morphisms. This defines the
$$\Fun^{ult}(\cl{E},\cl{E}') \subseteq \Fun_{\Stone^{fr}}(\cl{E},\cl{E}')$$
as the full subcategory spanned by the ultrafunctors.

Moreover, it defines *the of ultracategories*
$$\widehat{\Cat^{ult}_\infty} \subseteq (\widehat{\Cat_\infty})_{/\Stone^{fr}}$$
as the subcategory spanned by the ultracategories and the ultrafunctors.

Furthermore, we define $\cl{U} \subseteq \Cat^{ult}_\infty$ as the full
subcategory spanned by the (small) bounded ultraspaces.

Since $\Stone^{fr}$ is not a small category, all ultracategories are
"large" objects. Hence we are forced to think about set-theoretic issues
and categories of large objects, even if we only wish to consider small
ultracategories (as in this case).

Since for spaces, $X \simeq X^{op}$, when $\cl{E}$ is an ultraspace we
will refer to $\cl{E}_*$ as the underlying space, instead of
$\cl{E}_*^{op}$.

By HTT Remark 2.4.2.9, if the fibers of a locally Cartesian fibration
are groupoids, it is in fact a Cartesian fibration. It follows that
condition (b) is redundant for ultraspaces.

Suppose $\cl{E} \in \cl{U}$ is a bounded ultraspace, with discrete
underlying space $X = X^{op}$. Then for each set $I$ and each
ultrafilter $\mu$ in $I$, we obtain a functor
$$X^I \overset{\simeq}{\from} \cl{E}_{\beta I} \to \cl{E}_{\{\mu\}} = X$$
which is well-defined up to contractible ambiguity. But in fact these
are sets, to this just means it is a well-defined function. Let us
denote it by $\int_{I}\bullet d\mu$

These maps determine an ultrastructure on $X$. Moreover, this assignment
determines a functor $$\cl{U}^{\leq 0} \to CHaus$$ under the
identification of compact Hausdorff spaces with ultrasets, which is an
equivalence of categories.

In fact, one should expect to derive this from a more general
proposition, namely that ultra-with underlying object a $1$-category are
equivalent to ordinary ultracategories. But working with just sets
brings some simplifications, which we will take advantage of.

Note that we do not have to define any more data, since $X$ is a set. We
just have to check the conditions of \[REF: Ultracategories DEF: 3.1.1\]

By construction of the equivalence $X^I \simeq \cl{E}_{\beta I}$, if
$\mu = \delta_i$ for $i\in I$, the map $\int_I\bullet d\mu$ is
equivalent to the $i$th coordinate projection - in other words, it
*equals* it.

Let us suppose we are given an $S$-indexed family of ultrafilters in
$T$. This is equivalently a function $\nu: S \to \beta T$, which is
precisely a map $$\beta S \to \beta T \text{ in } \Stone^{fr}$$
Furthermore, we are given an ultrafilter $\mu$ on $S$, which we regard
as a point $$\{\mu\} \into \beta S$$

We have a triangle in $\Stone^{fr}$

(The diagonal is simply the composite).

This gives a triangle of functions:

Now the Fubini condition is that this diagram commutes. But this follows
directly from remark \[REF\].

To define the functor, note that being an ultrafunctor(ultrafunction)
between ultrasets is a property, not extra structure. So it suffices to
show that, given an ultrafunctor $\cl{E} \to \cl{E}'$ between two
$0$-truncated ultraspaces, the underlying functor preserves
ultraproducts, which is straightforward.

To see that this functor is fully faithful, note that ultrafunctors
between $0$-truncated ultraspaces are uniquely determined by the
underlying function, since one always has commutative diagrams

(and the higher coherence information involved in defining an
ultrafunctor is trivial).

Lastly, to see essential surjectivity, let an ultraset $X$ be given.
Then we simply define the category $\cl{E}$ to have as objects pair
$(\beta I, f)$, where $\beta I$ is a free Stone space and
$f: \beta I \to X$ is an ultrafunction (i.e a continuous function). A
morphism $(\beta I,f) \to (\beta J,g)$ is a map $\beta I \to \beta J$
rendering the obvious diagram commutative.

Now it is easy to verify that $\cl{E} \to \Stone^{fr}$ is an ultra-which
goes to $X$.

To prove the equivalence $\cl{U}_{\leq 0}^+ \simeq \cl{U}$, it suffices
that the induced map on models is an equivalence.

$$\Fun^{pre}(\cl{U},\cl{S}) \to \Fun^{pre}(\cl{U}_{\leq 0}^+, \cl{S}) \simeq \Fun^{pre}(\cl{U}_{\leq 0}, Set)$$

Hence it suffices to prove:

(a) The $\Fun^{pre}(\cl{U}, \c{S})$ is a $1$-category.

(b) $$\Fun^{pre}(\cl{U},\cl{S}) \to \Fun^{pre}(\cl{U}_{\leq 0}, Set)$$
    is a fully faithful and essentially surjective functor of
    $1$-categories.

According to Lurie 30X, the first is sufficient, although maybe that's
just because (b) always holds.

To prove the first, we may consider the filtration
$\cl{U} = \colim \cl{U}_{\leq 0}$. This leads to
$$\Fun(\cl{U},\cl{S}) = \lim \Fun(\cl{U}_{\leq n},\cl{S})$$ Since
mapping spaces are computed as limits, they commute with limits. Hence
it suffices to prove, for pretopos functors $F,G: \cl{U} \to \cl{S}$,
that $$\Map(F|_{\cl{U}_{\leq n}},G|_{\cl{U}_{\leq n}})$$ is discrete for
each $n$.

In fact, we should be able to prove that
$$\Map(F|_{\cl{U}_{\leq n}},G|_{\cl{U}_{\leq n}}) \to \Map(F|_{\cl{U}_{\leq n-1}},G|_{\cl{U}_{\leq n-1}})$$
is a homotopy equivalence for each $n$. This gives the discreteness and
the full faithfulness in one go. (Since clearly this set is discrete
when $n = 0$)
