---
title: Untitled
date: 2017-07-06
tags: Operator algebra, Banach algebra, Abstract index, Spectrum (Banach Algebra), Multiplicative functionals, Gelfand transform
---
Operator Algebra
----------------

A Banach algebra is a $\C$(or $\R$)-algebra which is also a banach
space. The norm must be compatible with the multiplication, in the sense
that

1.  $\norm{1} = 1$ if the algebra is unital

2.  $\norm{ab} \leq \norm{a}\norm{b}$

These rules are analogous to properties of the operator norm on
$\cl{L}(X,Y)$, this is an easy way to remember the direction of the
inequality in (2).

Examples of Banach Algebras include $C(X)$ with the sup-norm and
pointwise multiplication for a space $X$. Also $\cl{L}(X,X)$ with
composition, if $X$ is a Banach space. Perhaps most importantly, $B(H)$
for $H$ a hilbert space. Many others.

We denote the group of units $G(A)$. The connected component of $1$ in
$G(A)$ is $G_0(A)$. It is a normal subgroup of $G(A)$. The map
$G(A) \to G(A)/G_0(A)$ is called the *abstract index* (Ie
$xG_0(A) \in G(A)/G_0(A)$, for $x\in G(A)$ is called the abstract index
of $x$.) $G(A)/G_0(A)$ is discrete.
We define the *spectrum* of
$x$, $\sigma(x)$, to be the set
$\{\lambda \in \C : \lambda 1 - x \text{ not invertible}\}$

Similar to eigenvalues - *is* eigenvalues for $A$ a matrix algebra. But
might not be - ie $f \mapsto xf$ in $B(L^2([0,1]))$ has no eigenvalues,
but (theorem) spectrum always nonempty.

The above theorem relies on compatible banach space structure - even
though spectrum is purely algebraic construction of $\C$-algebras.

Multiplicative functionals:
bounded linear functionals with $\phi(x)\phi(y) = \phi(xy)$. Ring
homomorphisms to a field, so kernel is maximal ideal. Since closure of
ideal is ideal, all maximal ideals are closed, so multiplicative
functionals are "the same" as maximal ideals. $\cl{M}_A$ is the space of
all multiplicative functionals on $A$ (subset of $A^*$, but not a
sub(vector)space).

It is immediate that any multiplicative functional has $\phi(1) = 1$, so
$\norm{\phi} \geq 1$. In fact we have $\norm{\phi} = 1$.

So $\cl{M_A} \subset \bar{B}_{A^*}(0,1)$, and it's closed in the
weak\*-topology, so weak\*-compact.
There is an obvious map $\Gamma: \cl{A} \to C(\cl{M_A})$ given by
$\Gamma(x)(\phi) = \phi(x)$. Easy to check this is Banach algebra
homomorphism. Not necessarily nice in general, but if $\cl{A}$
commutative, it can distinguish invertible elements.

Sketch of proof: all algebra homoms take invertible elements to
invertible elements. If $x\in A$ not invertible, contained in maximal
ideal $I$, so $\Gamma(x)(\phi_I) = 0$, ie $\Gamma(x)$ noninvertible.

Remark: this trades off the correspondence between maximal ideals of
$C(X)$ and points of $X$. The fact that all ideals generate a maximal
ideal, only true in commutative algebras, is key here. Hints at issues
with noncommutative geometry.

Corrolary to above: if $x\in A$, $A$ a comm. alg, we have
$\sigma_A(x) = \sigma_{C(M_A)}(\Gamma(x)) = \text{Range of $\Gamma(x)$}$,
ie the spectrum of $x$ is precisely the possible values of $\phi(x)$
when $\phi$ multiplicative. This is one sense in which spectrum is like
range.

A computation
-------------

Put $\cl{A} = \{f \in C[0,1] : f' \in C[0,1]\}$. Then
$\cl{M_A} \cong [0,1]$.

To see this, take $[0,1] \to \cl{M_A}$ by $z \mapsto \phi_z(f) = f(z)$.
In the other direction, take $\phi \mapsto \phi(x)$ ($x$ is the identity
function).

It's clear that the composition $[0,1] \to [0,1]$ is the identity. To
see that $\phi_{\phi(x)} = \phi$, note that these two functionals algree
on polynomials, since by assumption $\phi$ is multiplicative and linear.
Then they agree everywhere, since polynomials are dense in $\cl{A}$.

Interesting that our algebra is obtained as closure of "algebraically
nice" algebra (of polynomials). More analysis/algebra connections.
