---
title: Untitled
date: 2017-11-14
---
Fibrations of simplicial sets
-----------------------------

-   A morphism which lifts against all horn inclusions
    $\Lambda^n_i \subset \Delta^n, 0 \leq i \leq n$ is a *Kan fibration*

-   A morphism which lifts against all horn inclusions
    $\Lambda^n_i \subset \Delta^n, 0 < i \leq n$ is a *right fibration*

-   A morphism which lifts against all horn inclusions
    $\Lambda^n_i \subset \Delta^n, 0  \leq i < n$ is a *left fibration*

-   A morphism which lifts against all horn inclusions
    $\Lambda^n_i \subset \Delta^n, 0 < i < n$ is an *inner fibration*

-   A morphism which lifts against all monomorphisms that are
    categorical equivalences is a *categorical fibration*

An inner fibration has fibers that are $\infty$-categories. Since every
class of fibrations above is contained in the inner fibrations, it
follows that they all have $\infty$-categorical fibers. Left and right
fibrations have fibers that are Kan complexes (i.e, $\infty$-groupoids),
and which depend functorially (either contra- or covariantly, depending
on whether it's a left or right fibration) on the base simplicial set,
in a precise sense. There is also a notion of Cartesian/coCartesian
fibration, which has general $\infty$-categorical fibers depending
functorially on the base. The content of the
straightening/unstraightening equivalence is essentially that Cartesian
fibrations into $B$ are the same thing as functors $B \to \Cat_\infty$

Let $p: X \to S$ be an inner fibration. An edge $f:x\to y \in X$ is
$p$-Cartesian if the induced map
$X_{/f} \to X_{/y} \times_{S_{/p(y)}} S_/p(f)$. In other words, a
commutative triangle like this:

in $X$ is equivalent to a choice of map $a \to y$ and a commutative
triangle:

in $S$. (And so on for the higher simplices). The $1$-categorical
version of this statement is that given a map $g: a \to y$ and a
factorization of $p(g)$ through $p(f)$, we can lift it to a
factorization of $g$ through $f$. The lift is "unique up to homotopy".

If, for each object $x\in X$ and morphism $f: p(x) \to y$, we can lift
$f$ to a $p$-cartesian morphism $x \to y'$, we call $p$ a Cartesian
fibration.

The relative nerve
------------------

There's a simpler version of the straightening/unstraightening functors
in the case where the base is the nerve of a $1$-category. This is the
case, for instance, for the coCartesian fibrations that describe
$\infty$-operads. Read up on this maybe.

Straightening/Unstraightening
-----------------------------

If $S$ is a simplicial set, $\cl{C}$ is a simplicial category and
$\phi: \frk{C}(S) \to \cl{C}^{op}$ is a simplicial functor, there exists
an adjunction:
$$\adjunction{St^+_\phi}{(\Set^+_\Delta)_{/S}}{(\Set^+_\Delta)^\cl{C}}{Un^+_\phi}$$
which is a Quillen adjunction, giving the left category the cartesian
model structure, and the right category the projective model structure.
If $\phi$ is an equivalence, it is a Quillen equivalence.

The projective model structure depends on the model structure of the
target category, in this case $\Set^+_\Delta$. This is the same as
$(\Set^+_\Delta)_{/\Delta^0}$, which receives the Cartesian model
structure. In this case, an object is simply a marked simplicial set, a
cofibration is a monomorphism (which preserves the marking) and a
fibrant object is a simplicial set with $S \to \Delta^0$ Cartesian -
this is equivalent to being an inner fibration, so these are precisely
the $\infty$-categories. It's not hard to see that the weak equivalences
between fibrant objects are precisely the categorical equivalences
(using definition/proposition 3.1.3.3 of [@LuHiTop]) - the marked edges
are the Cartesian morphisms are precisely the equivalences, so they're
automatically preserved. Hence the underlying $\infty$-category is
precisely Lurie's $\Cat_\infty$. By a later theorem, [@LuHiTop] ,
functor categories play nice with "taking the underlying
$\infty$-category", so that
$N((Set^+_\Delta)^\cl{C}) \simeq Fun(N(\cl{C}),Cat_\infty)$

Of course, if $(\Set^+_\Delta)_{/S}$ is supposed to model functors
$S\op \to \Cat_\infty$, we better get $\Cat_\infty$ out when we plug in
$\Delta^0$ - so the above discussion is "morally justified".

There exists a simplicial set $Z$ and a Cartesian fibration
$Z \to \Cat_\infty$ so that, for each Cartesian fibration $X \to S$,
there's a map $S \to \Cat_\infty$ and an equivalence (of Cartesian
fibrations) between $X \to S$ and the pullback of $\Z \to \Cat_\infty$.
