---
title: Untitled
date: 2017-10-04
---
Something about simplicial abelian groups.

Let $A$ be a simplicial abelian group. Let $x \in A_n$ satisfy
$d_i(x) = 0$ for all $i$. Then there exists a nullhomotopy of $x$, i.e.
a dashed arrow filling this diagram:

if and only if there exists an $n+1$-simplex $y$ with $d_0(y) = x$ and
$d_i(y)=0$ otherwise.

The "if" direction is clear - we can simply glue on copies of the $n+1$
simplex $0$ to get a map $\Delta^n \times \Delta^1 \to A$. Now for each
$0\leq k\leq n$, define an $n+1$ simplex,
$a_k \in (\Delta^n \times \Delta^1)_{n+1}$ in the following way: the map
$[n+1] \to [n]$ is surjective and hits $k$ twice. The map
$[n+1] \to [1]$ maps numbers $\leq k$ to $0$ and $> k$ to $1$. Then for
$i \neq k, k+1$, the first component of $d_i(a_k)$ is a degenerate
$n$-simplex. This is in the image of the top map, so
$d_i(H(a_k))= H(d_i(a_k)) = 0$.

On the other hand, $d_k(a_k)$ and $d_{k+1}(a_k)$ both have the identity
as their first component. The second component of $d_k(a_k)$ maps
numbers $< k$ to $0$ and $\geq k$ to $1$. The second component of
$d_{k+1}(a_k)$ maps numbers $\leq k$ to $0$ and $> k$ to $1$. All this
implies that $d_{k+1}(a_k) = d_{k+1}(a_{k+1})$. Also note that if $k=0$,
$d_k(a_k)$ is the identity on the first component and constant $1$ on
the second. This is the image of the nondegenerate $n$-simplex under the
bottom map, so $d_0(H(a_k)) = H(d_0(a_k)) = x$.

Now consider the alternating sum
$N = a_0 - a_1 + a_2 - \cdots +(-1)^n a_n$. It's clear from the above
that $d_0(H(N)) = x$ and $d_k(H(n)) = 0$ for $0 < k \leq n$. Furthemore
$d_{n+1}(H(N)) = (-1)^nH(d_{n+1}(a_n))$. $d_{n+1}(a_n)$ has second
component constant $0$ map, so goes to $0$ under $H$. Hence this is $0$.
So $y=H(N)$ is an $n+1$-simplex as desired.

Derivations
-----------

Let $R$ be a commutative ring and $S$ an $R$-algebra. Let $M$ be an
$S$-module. It has the structure of an $R$-module as well. An $R$-module
homomorphism $d: S \to M$ is a derivation if
$d(fg) = f\cdot dg + g \cdot df$.

In particular, if we give a retraction $e: S \to R$, every $R$-module is
an $S$-module as well. Then a derivation is a map of $R$-modules
satisfying $d(fg) = e(f)d(g) + e(g)d(f)$. We can specialize to the case
where $S$ is some algebra of functions into $R$ and $e$ is evaluation at
some fixed point, to obtain the notion of evaluations at $a$, used for
smooth manifolds.
