---
title: Untitled
date: 2019-02-18
---
Let $\cl{U}$ be our category of "bounded ultraspaces". Then our first
guess is that the discrete objects of $\cl{U}$ are precisely the
ultrasets. Supposing this is true, or even that it contains ultrasets as
a full subcategory, we have an equivalence

$$CHaus \to \cl{U}_{\leq 0}$$

This induces a functor

$$CHaus^+ \to \cl{U}$$ Which we now wish to show is an equivalence.

A.6.4.1: Pretopos morphism definition: Preserve finite limits, finite
coproducts, and effective epimorphisms. An effective epimorphism is a
map $f: X \to Y$ so that $Y$ is the colimit of the Cech nerve.

A.9.1.1 gives alternative condition in the case we care about. The proof
seems to state that effective epimorphism in sets = surjective on
$\pi_0$.

A.6.7 Truncation in infinity-pretopoi

Thm A.9.0.6 combined with Cor A.9.1.2 gives a recognition criterion: it
suffices to prove that the functor
$$\Fun^{pre}(\cl{U},\cl{S}) \to \Fun^{pre}(CHaus^+,\cl{S})$$ is an
equivalence.

To do this, we may consider the composite

$$\Fun^{pre}(\cl{U},\cl{S}) \to \Fun^{pre}(CHaus^+,\cl{S}) \labelto{\simeq} \Fun^{pre}(CHaus, Set)$$

The statement that this is an equivalence seems quite strong, since the
RHS is just a 1-category. In any case, if we can prove this, then the
first map is an equivalence.

This map can also be described as the composite

$$\Fun^{pre}(\cl{U},\cl{S}) \to \Fun^{pre}(\cl{U}_{\leq 0},\Set) \labelto{\simeq} \Fun^pre(CHaus,Set)$$

Hence is suffices to show that this first functor is an equivalence of
$\infty$-categories .

Basic idea 1: we want to present each ultraspace $X$ as a geometric
realization of discrete ultraspaces, and prove that this geometric
realization is preserved by the pretopos functors.

Given an ultraspace $X$, use the actual simplicial set underlying $X$ as
a presentation $X = |X_\bullet|$. (Not totally clear this gives
ultrastructure..). Then $X_0 \to X$ is an effective epimorphism, by the
fact that this is a pretopos.

Hence the induced map $f(X_0) \to f(X)$ is also effective - hopefully
this allows us to transfer forward the rest of the geometric realization
as well.

Problem with this is that there is really no set $X_0$ we can choose so
that the homotopy pullback $X_0 \times_X X_0$ is discrete - this is
bound to fail if $X$ has higher homotopy groups.

Perhaps we can use induction - this approach may deal with $1$-types,
and then $2$-types follow, and so on.

Sketch: We see that
$$\cl{U} \simeq \colim \cl{U}_{\leq 0} \into \cl{U}_{\leq 1} \into \dots$$
So that
$$\Fun^{pre}(\cl{U},\cl{S}) \simeq \lim_{\from} \Fun^{pre}(\cl{U}_{\leq 1},\cl{S}) \to \Fun^{pre}(\cl{U}_{\leq 0},\cl{S}) \into \dots$$
And moreover:
$$\Fun^{pre}(\cl{U}_{\leq n},\cl{S}) \simeq \Fun^{pre}(\cl{U}_{\leq n}, \cl{S}_{\leq n})$$

So we wish to show that each of these restriction maps is an
equivalence.

And here the idea is that, given an $n$-type $X$, we get an effective
epimorphism $\pi_0 X \to X$, where the pullback
$\pi_0X \times_X \pi_0 X$ is an $n-1$-type.

Now we apply the fact that each of these functors must preserve
effective epimorphisms and pullbacks (in fact all finite limits) to
determine the value at $X$, given its value on $n-1$-types.

This obviously relies on quite a bit of input.

This doesn't quite work as written, since e.g. $CHaus$ is not an
$\infty$-pretopos (groupoid objects are not generally effective, as far
as I can tell - there is not enought structure in the realization to
recover a groupoid object with any amount of structure).

Consider this form of conceptual completeness: If $\cl{C}$ is a bounded
pretopos and $\cl{C}'$ is small, then
$$\Fun^{pre}(\cl{C},\cl{C}') \labelto{\simeq} \Fun^{ult}(Mod(\cl{C}'),Mod(\cl{C}))$$

Compare the necessity of this boundedness hypothesis with my previous
thoughts on this, the fact that being an $n$-equivalence of categories
is \"first-order\", but not being an equivalence in general.
