---
title: Cognitive Science Notes 1
date: 2019-09-10
tags: Cognitive Science
---
Notes from Bermudez: Cognitive Science.
Part 2: *The Integration Challenge*.

The overall point of this chapter is to study how the various fields and theories that contribute to cognitive science are "integrated" into a cohesive theory.
One reasonable taxonomy that could be applied is to organize cognitive science in three dimensions:

- *Levels of organization*. The cognitive behavior of an organism is determined by the brain, which is made up of smaller sub-components, which are made up of neurons... At what level are we working?
- *Resolution*. Of the measurement technique. Are we measuring behavioral data (psychology, essentially), or fMRI scans, or single-unit recordings?
- *Domain*, i.e are we looking at speech, or vision, or memory,... ?

It's interesting to contrast e.g. psychology, where the subfields correspond essentially to domains, and there are pretty much no levels of organization or resolutions,
and neuroscience, where the domains are pretty much secondary, and it's all about the levels of organization.
This contrast is part of the integration challenge.

We encounter two examples of "local integration".
First, there's an integration between evolutionary psychology and "the cognitive psychology of reasoning".
The phenomenon in question is that people do much better on certain logical inference tasks if they're presented as "Are these social rules being followed" rather than "Are these symbolical/logical rules being followed".[^wason] This is explained by evolutionary psychology: in order to foster cooperation, the brain would need to quickly detect defectors, so it makes sense that we have hardware for "cheater detection".

[^wason]: See [Wason selection task](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wason_selection_task)

The second example is much more low-level.
Essentially, fMRI measures a certain signal, which was thought to correlate with "level of cognitive activity" in an area.
But what sort of cognitive activity? Neurons firing, neurons receiving input?
It was determined that it correlates with neurons receiving input.

There is then a discussion of "intertheoretic reduction".
The idea here is that, e.g. thermodynamics can be reduced to classical mechanics.
So we could hope that similarly, various aspects of cognitive science would reduce to a common theory.
The main problem is that the "laws" in cognitive science are very different than the laws of physical science.
First, they are much more probabilistic. Second, reducing the observed regularities in behavior to a lower level of explanation is not just a way of reducing cognitive science - it's the whole *point* of this type of science.
