---
title: Cognitive Science Notes 2
date: 2019-09-11
tags: Cognitive Science
---

Notes from Bermudez: Cognitive Science.
Part 2: *The Integration Challenge*, continued.

We can consider Marr's tri-level mental model[^marrlevels] as an approach to the integration challenge.
It integrates the different fields of cognitive science by letting them answer question at different levels.
For instance, cognitive psychology can tell us about the computational level, but neurology tells us about the implementation level.
However, the model has some serious limitations as a general approach to cognitive science.
It supposes what Bermudez terms the *modularity hypothesis*: that the mind decomposes as a network of distinct information-processing units,
which a number of special features[^listmodul] that makes them "modular".
It seems pretty clear that we can't give an account of all types of cognition in this model.

[^marrlevels]: Computational, Algorithmic and Implementational

[^listmodul]: List on pages 126-127.

Bermudez then skteches a more general approach, which we could call "Cognitive science is about mental architectures".
The idea is that the ground assumption of cognitive science is that cognition is fundamentally information-processing.
Interpreting this idea requires answering three questions. First, for a given cognitive system, we ask

- In what format is information carried by the system?
- How does it transform the information?

And third, we ask in general:

- How is the mind structured to function as an information-processing system.

Different answers to this third question give different approaches to cognitive science.
For instance, Marr's modular three-level model says "the mind is built of of domain-specific modules which process various types of domain information in well-defined ways".
But it is also common to consider that certain systems store information in a domain-general way - for instance, this is a common view of memory.
Bermudez calls a set of answers to these three questions a "Mental Architecture". He constrasts this with the term "Cognitive Architecture" is often used in the literature for something more technical and specific - a model of intelligent problem solving (he names "ACT-R" and "Soar", which will apparently be discussed later).
