---
title: Cognitive Science Notes 4
tags: Cognitive Science
date: 2019-09-13
---

## Cognitive Science Notes 4

Part 3: Information-processing models of the mind.

We continue the discussion of intentional realism.
A question for this paradigm, and for the symbol-processing paradigm in general, is: how do semantic properties of symbols (their referents out in the real world) correspond to their "formal properties", i.e the physical properties we believe they have in terms of their form.
One way of thinking about this, developed by Jerry Fodor, is by analogy with formal logic.
There is a strong relationship between the syntactic properties of first-order logic and its interpretation in reality (it is complete and sound).
This is because the syntactic relations between sentences, and symbols, reflect a certain structure in reality.
Fodor hypothesizes (hardly a revelation) that this is how it works in the brain: the physical properties and relationships between the patterns that correspond to symbols in the brain reflect their semantic relationships.
But he goes further in saying that language is actually the correct model for this - that we should think of the brain as operating on some hypothetical "mentalese".

Then there is a discussion of the Chinese room argument, with all the infuriating confusion usually connected with this. They print a response by Searle, to the "the whole system understands Chinese, even if the man doesn't" objection, which I don't think I had seen before.
Searle says, "Just have the man memorize the book, he still won't understand Chinese" - as if a system must be outside the brain to be distinct from my mind.
The problem posed by Searle is called the symbol-grounding problem. I think there is some philosophical there there, but the idea that a mechanical system would be more subsceptible to this type of attack is idiotic.
