---
title: Untitled
date: 2019-02-11
---
Continuing from yesterday: We are looking for the equivalence between
(1) and (3) below

Let $X$ be a spectrum. Then TFAE:

(1) Each homotopy group of $X$ is $p$-local, i.e
    $\pi_i X \labelto{\cdot p} \pi_i X$ is an isomorphism.

(2) The multiplication by $p$ map $X \labelto{\cdot p} X$ is an
    equivalence.

(3) $X \tensor S\Z/(p) \simeq 0$.

(4) $X$ is $\Z[p\inv]$-local.

The equivalence of (1) and (2) is clear.

The short exact sequence $$\Z \to \Z \to \Z/(p)$$ Induces a fiber
sequence $$\S \labelto{\cdot p} \S \to S\Z/(p)$$ of Moore spectra.
Tensoring with $X$, we obtain
$$X \labelto{\cdot p} X \to X \tensor S\Z(p)$$

And now the equivalence of (2) and (3) is clear. (The induced map on $X$
is multiplication by $p$ because tensor commutes with finite limits and
colimits).

We wish to show that $S\Z[p\inv] \tensor (X \labelto{\cdot p} X)$ is an
equivalence. This is true simply because
$S\Z[p\inv] \labelto{\cdot p} S\Z[p\inv]$ is an equivalence. Then
assuming (4), (2) follows, since this is a $S\Z[p\inv]$-equivalence
between local objects.

On the other hand, note that $S\Z[p\inv]$ is a smashing localization. So
consider the short exact sequence $$\Z \to \Z[p\inv] \to \Z[p\inv]/\Z$$
This leads to a fiber sequence
$$\Omega S\Z[p\inv]/\Z \to \S \to S\Z[p\inv]$$ Tensoring this with $X$,
we obtain a fiber sequence

$$X \tensor \Omega S\Z[p\inv]/\Z \to X \to X \tensor S\Z[p\inv]$$

Assume (1,2,3) holds. Note that one has a short exact sequence
$$\pi_*X \tensor \Z[p\inv] \to \pi_*(X \tensor S\Z[p\inv]) \to Tor(\Z[p\inv], \pi_{*-1}X)$$
By (1), the first term is equivalently $\pi_*X$. Moreover, the last term
is zero since $J\inv\Z$ is always flat, for any multiplicative subset
$J \subset \Z$. Hence the map $X \to X \tensor S\Z[p\inv]$ is an
isomorphism.

Note that one should use the term *$p$-divisible* for the term discussed
here, and $p$-local should mean $q$-divisible for all $q\neq p$.

Being a $\Z/(p)$-equivalence should be equivalent to having
$p$-divisible cofiber. Clearly it's the same as having $\Z/(p)$-acyclic
(co)fiber, and we just showed this is the same as $p$-divisible.

Being a $\Z_{(p)} := \Z[\{q \neq p\}\inv]$-equivalence should mean that
at least one prime other than $p$ is zero in the (co)fiber. Clearly it's
the same as $A \tensor S\Z_{(p)}$ being zero, with $A$ the cofiber. This
at least intuitively, if we think of this tensor as inverting the
non-$p$-primes in $A$, means that everything is $q$-torsion for some
$q\neq p$ (maybe depending on the element).

The short exact sequence $$\Z_{(p)} \to \Z_{(p)} \to \Z/(p)$$ leads to a
fiber sequence
$$X \tensor S\Z_{(p)} \to X \tensor S\Z_{(p)} \to X \tensor S\Z/(p)$$
which implies that if $X$ is $\Z_{(p)}$-acyclic, it is also
$S\Z/(p)$-acyclic. In other words, $p$-complete implies $p$-local.

The thick subcategories of $\Sp$ are precisely the kernels of $K(p,n)$.
Here $K(p,\infty) = H\Z/(p)$, so that one thick subcategory is precisely
the $p$-divisible things. $K(p,0) = H\Q$, so that the torsion things are
another thick subcategory.

$L_{K(n)}$ gives one the information that $K(n)$ *doesn't* kill, so that
e.g. $L_{H\Q}$ is rationalization, and $L_{K(p,\infty)} = L_{\Z/(p)}$ is
$p$-completion.

By the theorem about supports, it seems that $n<m$ implies that $K(n)$
has more acyclics than $K(m)$. So $K(n)$ always kills at least all the
$\Z/(p)$-acyclic objects, at least for finite spectra.

!!!For *finite* spaces, i.e. those with finitely many nonzero htpy
groups, all of them finite, localization and completion agree. Although
this does not include e.g. the sphere\...

The map $\cdot q: \S \to \S$ becomes an isomorphism after $p$-completing
whenever $p \neq q$, since $q$ is invertible in $\Z/(p)$. But the same
is true for $\Z_{(p)}$, so also $p$-localizing does this. Hence any
thick tensor-ideal which is contained in the kernel of $p$-localization
will be sent to $(p) \in Spec \Z$ under the canonical map
$$Spc(\Sp) \to \Spec(\Z)$$ Recall that this map is
$$\rho(P) := \{f \in \Hom(\S,\S) \simeq \Z \mid cofib(f) \notin P\}$$

According to Barthel-Beaudry, this identifies $Spc(\Sp_{(p)})$ and
$\rho\inv({(p)})$.
