---
title: Untitled
date: 2019-02-07
---
Continued from yesterday.

Let $\cl{C}$ be a stable, presentably symmetric monoidal . Suppose
$I_\cl{C}$ is compact. Then the functor
$\Sp^\omega \into \Sp \to \cl{C}$ factors over the compact objects of
$\cl{C}$, so that we get $\Sp^\omega \to \cl{C}^\omega$.

Follows from the fact that $\Sp^\omega$ is generated by $\mathbb{S}$
under finite colimits, these are preserved by the functor, and
$\cl{C}^\omega$ is stable under these.

It's an interesting question what, if any, assumptions are needed on
$\cl{C}$ to ensure that this functor is symmetric monoidal, or even that
$\cl{C}^\omega$ admits a symmetric monoidal structure. It seems
sufficient that $\cl{C}^\omega$ is stable under the tensor product, but
how to ensure this?

Suppose $\cl{C}^\omega$ is generated by $I$ under finite limits..

$$\Map(A \tensor B, \colim X_i) \simeq \Map(A, [B,\colim X_i]) \simeq \Map(A, [\colim_j I, \colim X_i])
\simeq \Map(A, \lim_j \colim_i X_i)$$
$$\simeq \lim_j \Map(A, \colim_i X_i) \simeq \lim_j \colim_i \Map(A,X_i)
\simeq \colim_i \lim_j \Map(A,X_i)$$ This works, but unclear when we
should expect this..

As per Balmers TTG survey, in the triangulated case, with some
assumptions on C, the compact objects are precisely the rigid ones (i.e
those with duals). Specifically:

Suppose $\cl{C}$ is a compactly generated, presentably symmetric
monoidal, stable . Suppose further that for compact objects $B$ and
arbitrary objects $C$, we have $[B,I] \tensor C \simeq [B,C]$, and that
the unit $I$ is compact. Then:

(a) Whenever $B$ is compact, $[B,-]$ preserves filtered colimits

(b) If $[B,I] \tensor C \simeq [B,C]$ for all compact $C$, then $B$ is
    compact.

(c) $\cl{C}^\omega$ is stable under $\tensor$, and thus inherits the
    structure of a symmetric monoidal stable .

First, let $B$ satisfy the hypothesis of (b) for *all* $C$, let
$X = \colim_i X(i)$ be a filtered colimit, and let us calculate:
$$\Map(B, \colim_i X(i))
  \simeq \Map(I, [B, \colim_i X(i)])
  \simeq \Map(I, [B, I] \tensor \colim_i X(i))
  \simeq \Map(I, \colim_i [B,I] \tensor X(i))
  \simeq \colim_i \Map(I, [B,X(i)])
  \simeq \colim_i \Map(B,X(i))$$

In other words, $B$ is compact in this case. (This is precisely the
converse of our fist assumption).

Now (c) follows by the observation $[A \tensor B, C] \simeq [A, [B,C]]$,
and the calculation
$$[A \tensor B, I] \tensor C\simeq [A, [B,I]] \tensor C \simeq [A,I] \tensor [B,I] \tensor C
  \simeq [A,I] \tensor [B,C] \simeq [A,[B,C]] \simeq [A \tensor B,C]$$

Now let us go to (a). Fixing a compact object $X$, we see that
$$\Map(X, [B,\colim_i C(i)]) \simeq \Map(X \tensor B, \colim_i C(i))
  \simeq \colim_i \Map(X, [B,C(i)])
  \simeq \Map(X, \colim_i [B,C(i)])$$

Since $\cl{C}$ is compactly generated, this suffices.

Finally, let us prove (b) under the weaker hypothesis given. Fix a $B$,
and consider the collection of objects $C$ so that the equivalence
holds. This collection contains all compact objects, and since both
sides preserve filtered colimits in this variable, it's stable under
filtered colimits. Hence it contains all objects.

The collection of $B$ which satisfy the assumption is stable under
finite colimits (since the functors in $B$ on both sides take finite
colimits into limits). In addition, it always contains $I$.

The derived $\cl{D}(\Z)$ satisfies the hypothesis.

In this situation, the unique left adjoint symmetric monoidal functor
$\Sp \to \cl{C}$ restricts to a symmetric monoidal functor
$\Sp^\omega \to \cl{C}^\omega$.

(Note that the conditions of this theorem hold for $\cl{C} = \Sp$.)

The idea here is that $$\Sp^\omega \to \cl{C}^\omega$$ will induce a map
$Spc(\cl{C}^\omega) \to Spc(\Sp^\omega)$, and thus $Spc(\Sp^\omega)$
sits as some sort of terminal thing in TTG. Then one can pull back the
chromatic filtration (after $p$-completing) to to \"chromatic homotopy
theory\" in any stable .
