---
title: Untitled
date: 2019-05-15
---
Different types of dynamics
---------------------------

Suppose $X$ is a smooth manifold. Then we can consider different types
of "dynamics" on $X$.

(i) We can just take a (smooth) evolution map $X \to X$, which we may
    think of as *discrete* dynamics.

(ii) Or more generally an action of a discerete monoid on $X$ (which
    specializes to (i) in the case of $\N_0$.)

(iii) A smooth action of the smooth monoid $\R_{\geq 0}$ on $X$, which
    we may think of as a smooth dynamical system.

(iv) Or a smooth action of any smooth monoid.

(v) A smooth vector field, which we may think of as a differential
    equation.

-   We can pass from (iii) to (i) by restricting the action along the
    inclusion $\N_0 \into \R_{\geq 0}$.

-   Or by the embedding $\N_0 \labelto{\cdot h} \R_{\geq 0}$ for any
    $h \geq 0$.

-   We can pass from (iii) to (v) by taking the derivative at $(0,x)$ as
    the vector at $x$.

-   Absent issues of finite-time blowup (which are excluded for instance
    on compact manifolds), we can pass from (v) to (iii) by solving the
    equation.

The first (or second) bullet above sends a "continuous" dynamical system
to the discrete system "step time forward by 1" (or by $h$). There
should be another way to pass from (v) to (i) corresponding to
*discretization*, i.e to taking straight-line steps of length $h$ in the
direction of the tangent. This certainly requires a metric, and may have
other issues. It makes sense to walk along a geodesic by a certain
distance, but this may not even be easy to compute.

About logic
-----------

It seems worth it to think more deeply about the connection between
logic and topology. For instance, one could also think of about the
*Pyknotic objects* of Barwick-Haine, sheaves on the site of Stone spaces
(which is equivalent to the site of compact Hausdorff spaces) as
*cosheaves* on a site of (small) Boolean algebras.

Does it make sense to put in a different type of "logical system"? (Like
Heyting algebras?). Note that $\Bool \into \Heyt$ is fully faithful, i.e
being Boolean is a property of a Heyting algebra. We may define
$\Heyt \to \Top$ as usualy, by giving $\Hom(-,\{0 \to 1\})$ the product
topology. This still lands in profinite sets, so the image may be
site-equivalent to the above, but the functor may not be fully faithful.

Let us try to prove that it is fully faithful. Start with faithfullness.
Let $f,g:A\to B$ be Heyting algebras, suppose that $f(x)\neq g(x)$ for
some $x\in A$. Then we must identify a morphism $h: B \to \{0\to 1\}$ so
that $h(f(x)) \neq h(g(x))$. Suppose wlog that $f(x) \nleq g(x)$. Then
we try to construct a map so that $h(f(x)) = 1$ and $h(g(x)) = 0$. The
statement that there is no such $h$ says roughly that $f(x)$ and $g(x)$
has the same truth value in every assignment of truth values. This
should mean that they are really equivalent, i.e. equal. It's not
totally clear how to prove this though.
