---
title: Untitled
date: 2019-02-08
---
Something about $p$-localization/completion.

For $A$ an abelian group, we let $SA$ denote the Moore spectrum of $A$,
i.e the unique spectrum with:

(a) $\pi_0(SA) = A$

(b) $SA$ is connective, i.e $\pi_{<0}(SA) = 0$.

(c) $H_{>0}(SA;\Z) := \pi_{>0}(SA \tensor H\Z) = 0$.

For a spectrum $E$, the *$E$-localization* of $\Sp$ is the localization
at the $E$-equivalences, i.e those maps $f: A \to B$ so that
$E \tensor f : E\tensor A \to E\tensor B$ is an equivalence.

We denote the functor of $E$-localization $L_E$.

A map is an $E$-equivalence iff $E \tensor \cofib(f) \simeq 0$.

For any spectrum $E$:

(a) $E$-localization exists, and is accessible.

(b) Furthemore, the local subcategory is stable (equivalently, the
    localization functor is left exact).

(c) $L_E(X) \simeq 0$ if and only if $E \tensor X \simeq 0$.

(d) $X$ is $E$-local if and only if it receives only the zero map from
    $E$-acyclic spectra.

\(a) is technical - it can be done on the level of model categories (with
Bousfield localization of model categories) using the small object
argument, or on the level of using presentability to find a generating
set for the $E$-equivalences.

To see that the localization functor is left exact, let a finite limit
diagram be given. We have canonical maps
$$\lim X(i) \to L_E(\lim X(i)) \to \lim L_E X(i)$$

Note that the local subcategory is certainly stable under limits, so
that both the middle and right objects are local. Hence it suffices to
verify that the second map is a local equivalence. Note that the map
$\lim X(i) \to L_E(\lim X(i))$ is a local equivalence essentially by
definition, since it's a localization map. But the map
$\lim X(i) \to \lim L_EX(i)$ is a finite limit of local equivalences.
Since $E \tensor -$ commutes with finite limits, it itself is a local
equivalence. So by 2 out of 3, we are done.

To see (c), note that $L_E(X) \simeq 0$ is equivalent to the map
$X \to 0$ being a local equivalence, and by definition this means that
$E \tensor X \to E \tensor 0 \simeq 0$ should be an equivalence.

For (d), first suppose $X$ is $E$-local. Let $A \to X$ be any map from
an $E$-acyclic spectrum, and take the cofiber, getting a triangle
$A \to X \to B$. Clearly, $X \to B$ is an $E$-equivalence, in other
words $X \labelto{\sim} L_EX \to L_EB$ is an equivalenec, implying that
so is the homtopic map $X \to B \to LE_B$. This means that $B$ splits
into $X \oplus A'$. From the triangle $A \to X \to X \oplus A'$, it's
clear that $A' = \Sigma A$ and $A \to X$ is the zero map.

On the other hand, suppose $X$ receives only zero maps from $E$-acyclic
objects. Then in particular, the fiber of the map $X \to L_EX$, call it
$A$, maps into $X$ by a zero map. This leads to
$L_EX = X \oplus \Sigma A$. By by the previous, $L_EX$ receives only the
zero map from acyclic objects, so the inclusion
$\Sigma A \into X \oplus \Sigma A$ is zero, implying that $\Sigma A$
itself is zero, implying $X$ is local.

Bousfield localization at $S\Z/(p)$ is called $p$-completion. Bousfield
localization at $S\Z_{(p)}$ ($\Z$ with all primes except $p$ inverted)
is called $p$-localization. Bousfield localization at $S\Q$ is called
*rationalization*.

$p$-localization is smashing, and in fact
$L_{S\Z_{(p)}}X = X \tensor S\Z_{(p)}$.

$p$-completion is slightly more complicated, but we have
$$L_{S\Z/(p)}X = \map(\Omega S\Z/(p^\infty), X)$$ where $\Z/p^\infty$ is
for instance $\Z[p\inv]/\Z$.

The classical source of these ideas is Bousfield 79.

$S\Q \simeq H\Q$.

By definition of $S\Q$, this means that $H\Q$ has no positive integral
homology. Hence by UCT, it also has no positive rational homology, which
means that $H\Q \tensor H\Q = H\Q$. This then implies that
rationalization is also a smashing localization.

Let $X$ be a spectrum. Then the canonical square

is Cartesian.

In general, one writes $L_p$ for $L_{\Z/(p)}$, and $L_\Q$ for
$H\Q \tensor -$.

This may be thought of as some sort of recollement situation, although
it's not obvious to me how to assemble all the $p$-completions into one
piece.

Let $E,F$ be spectra so that $E \tensor L_FX \simeq 0$. Then

is Cartesian.

For distict primes $p,q$,
$L_{\Z/p \oplus \Z/q} = L_{Z/p} \oplus L_{\Z/q}$.

Supposing this works for infinite collections of primes (which is not
obvious, but moving on..) this tells us how to view the arithmetic
fracture square as a recollement: $\Sp$ is a recollement of $\Sp_\Q$ and
$\Sp_{P}$, where $P = \Z/(2) \oplus \dots$ (or should this be product?).
(This is the correct order, i.e $H\Q \tensor L_p..$ may be nontrivial,
but $L_p (H\Q \tensor -)$ is always trivial).

The idea of $p$-completion in a general stable category should be
localizing with respect to $I/(p)$, which is presumaly $F(\mathbb{S}/p)$
($=S\Z/p$??)

Important remark: In chromatic homotopy theory, the localization which
is taken as basic is $p$-localization, NOT $p$-completion. According to
Barthel--Beaudry, this is not critical, since $\Sp_{(p)}$ determines
$\Sp_p$, apparently?

Note that, since $p$-localization is smashing, $S\Z_p = \mathbb{S}_p$.

Consider two localizations: with respect to $E$, and with respect to
$L_E\mathbb{S}$. By the previous discussion, they clearly agree iff they
have the same kernel.

Note that $E \to L_E\mathbb{S} \tensor E$ is an equivalence, so that
every $L_E\mathbb{S}$-equivalence is also an $E$-equivalence. It's not
clear that the converse is always true?
