---
title: Hammertime start, Cognitive Science Notes 3
date: 2019-09-12
tags: Hammertime, Cognitive Science
---

## Hammertime day 1: Bug Hunt

I'm doing the [Hammertime](https://www.lesswrong.com/s/qRxTKm7DAftSuTGvj) series.

A mindful walkthrough:

- I often have serious trouble getting out of bed.
- I spend a lot of time moping around during my morning routine - could be more relaxed here.
- Packing my gym clothes is awkward.
- I could listen to audiobooks or music during the bike ride to school.
- If I get hungry during the day, I sometimes miss a healthy snack
- I feel unfocused after doing a minimal amount of work on each of my intentions/having done my dailies
- I'm not always good at actually relaxing during lunch
- When we get home, I have trouble doing something enjoyable with Julie - we end up just flattening out on the couch, hardly talking.
- We have serious trouble getting to sleep on time.
- I have trouble focusing on something constructive in the evening, or just doing something enjoyable.
- Need more earbuds for bed.

### Hobbies, Habits and Skills

- Hardware hacking
    - Have almost completely dropped this, even though I still find it interesting and think about it.
    - Should I buy some more stuff?
    - Bring my kit to Julie's
    - Start going to Labitat?
- Video gaming
    - Ditto, I never do this anymore.
    - Seems the easy soltuon is to bring desktop to Julie's. But will this just distract me from spending time with her?
    - Get more into the switch instead?
- Reading fiction
    - I have trouble finding time for this.
    - Buy more physical books, so I can read with her in the evenings?
- Exercise
    - This is already being worked on.
- Watching TV
    - Currently not doing this in an enjoyable way.

### Space

- It's hard to customize my workspace at the university.
- Could get better about having something physical to write on, or a thermos/water bottle.
- I should set up vscode better, with the "start finding notes" type functionality from LW thread.
    - Use extra monitor at home more.
    - Customize xmonad startup sequence.
- Put xmonad config on git
- The living room is subtly uncomfortable somehow. Find myself returning to couch even when rats need cuddles.
- The bathroom is a mess.
- My bag is totally disorganized. Lots of dead weight.

### Time and attention

- A lot of our TV watching is a total time sink for me.
- Facebook too often.
- Ditto reddit, LW
- Don't give enough attention to Julie. Especially when doing chores, things at home, have no attention surplus.
- Should spend more times with Magnus
- Ditto gym friends. More magic/board game days.
- Maybe should have music or something to keep noises in lib from distracting me?

### Blind Spots

- I generally underestimate my own ability - or at least, I'm unwilling (not sufficiently willing) to take risks where I fail if I'm not skilled enough.
- I'm not good enough at getting in contact with people who can guide my progress, senior people who can tell me how to succeed in a field (mentors). I basically had to stumble into my topology mentors at KU, won't be so lucky with AI.
- I'm overly attached to my identity as a hyper-abstract, pure, unconnected-to-reality mathematician
- I wish I was better socially - better at communicating my desires, saying why something upsets me without starting an argument. Better at asserting myself.

### Fear and Trembling

- I'm afraid of not living up to my potential
- Afraid of losing my chance at being a great mathematician by pivoting into AI
- Afraid of becoming unhappy in my relationship with J
- I'm often afraid of asserting myself when I disagree with J
- I'm afraid to talk about my thoughts about X-risk/rationality, because I fear looking silly.
- I'm afraid of "missing my shot" after MSc, just becoming a boring old Netcompany coder, and failing to achieve my potential.
  
## Cognitive Science 3

Part 3: Information-processing models of the mind.
We now start thinking about various models of the mind as an information-processing system.
The first is the "Physical symbol system hypothesis".
This idea is due to Herbert Simon and Allen Newell.
The basic idea of a "physical symbol system" is

- We have a collection of *physical symbols*, which are physical patterns. So it could be a particular arrangement of ink on a page, or the fact that the voltage in a certain wire is 5V instead of 0V.
- We have ways of arranging these symbols into *symbol structures*, larger assemblages of symbols.
- We have certain rules for transforming these symbol structures
- The rules can themselves be represented by symbols

The last one is supposed to a sort of "Turing-completeness" hypothesis, i.e the system can be "programmed" by the symbols.

Newell and Simon are both computer scientists who develop a series of intersting simple AI systems on this model - perhaps most famously the "General Problem Solver",
which searches for solutions to symbolically posed problems.
This provides an example of how symbol-manipulation can give at least a limited form of intelligence.
This proposition is not anything near an actual account of human cognition - there is no indication of what the symbols are (given that the only constraint is a "physical pattern", pretty much anything could fit), what the rules are, or anything like that.

One way of further fleshing this out is *intentional realism* - the symbols and symbol-structures in our mind correspond to *beliefs* and *desires*.
The somewhat philosophical argument for this idea is that this is how we model other people, how we predict their actions, and we are usually very successful.
So it is natural to think that the idea that cognition is "made of" belief and desires is true - that there are certain physical patterns in the brain corresponding to the belief "It is raining outside" and the desire "I want to stay dry", and so on.
