---
title: Untitled
date: 2019-06-26
---
Today in SYM 10 years, saw a very interesting talk by Ulrike Tillman on
*Random topology*. The concrete problem was something about the Cech
complex of the covering given by open balls with random centers, and the
asymptotic probability that this detects the homology of $M$.

At the end, Jesper Grodal asked the question which I had also been
considering during the talk: Could one develop a good "probabilistic"
approach to topology, in analogue with the successful use by Erdő
s-Renyi of random graphs to answer questions in combinatorics (these
were brought up during the talk). After all, many questions in topology,
or at least homotopy theory, are essentially combinatorial in nature.

One example question ocurred: let $S^n = \partial \Delta^{n+1}$ be a
simplicial model of the $n$-sphere (should it be
$\Delta^n/\partial \Delta^n$ instead?). Consider a fibrant replacement
$S^n \to \bar{S^n}$. Choose a random map $S^m \to \bar{S^n}$ in some
way. What is the probability that it's nontrivial, that it's
$p$-torsion, etc.

One larger project may be to ask for a homotopy theory of random spaces
- i.e an $\infty$ category (maybe with extra "random" structure)
$\S_{ran}$ of random spaces, and develop the homotopy theory of this
thing. Then there should be a way of extracting theorems about normal
spaces from statements with positive probability.

A first attempt:

Let $\cl{C}$ be an ($\infty$)-category. Then $\cl{C}_{ran}$ is the
($\infty$)-category where

1.  The objects are countable(finite?) nonempty sets $S$, equipped with
    a probability distribution, and a family of objects
    $\{X_s \in \cl{C}\}$.

2.  The morphisms $\{X_s\} \to \{Y_t\}$ are given by collections of
    morphisms $f_{s,t}: X_s \to Y_t$, for each $s,t$ so that
    $P_S(s)P_T(t) > 0$.

Of course, as written this is useless, because the probabilities have no
effect except making certain objects not count.

You also maybe want to say that a map is really a random map. Attempt 2:

Let $\cl{C}$ be an ($\infty$)-category. Then $\cl{C}_{ran}$ is the
($\infty$)-category where

1.  The objects are countable(finite?) nonempty sets $S$, equipped with
    a probability distribution, and a family of objects
    $\{X_s \in \cl{C}\}$.

2.  The morphisms $\{X_s\}_{s\in S} \to \{Y_t\}_{t\in T}$ are given by a
    measure-preserving stochastic map $\phi: A \times S \to T$, for some
    set $X$ with a probability distribution $P_X$, and a family of maps
    $f_{a,s}:X_s \to Y_{\phi(a,s)}$.

Another question is whether one should put the "asymptoticness" into the
category, i.e have a category of sequences of random spaces, or
something of that ilk.
