---
title: Wednesday, 2019-05-01 {#2019501:S}
tags: Petri nets
---
Thinking about <https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.12974>
-------------------------------------------------

Is the problem soluble by thinking about
braided monoidal categories instead of symmetric monoidal? Part of the
issue seems to be about commutativity, and "the causal relation ship
between tokens" (page 8).

Some thinking: The idea that a net "presents" some type of monoidal
category can be developed as follows:

Let $\cl{C}$ be a monoidal category, and let $N$ be a Petri net. Then
define a *model* $X$ of $N$ in $\cl{C}$ to consist of this data:

1.  For each place $a$ in $N$, an object $X(a)$ in the category.

2.  For each transition $t$ with inputs $a_1, \dots, a_i$ and outputs
    $b_1, \dots b_k$, a map
    $$X(t): X(a_1) \tensor \cdots \tensor X(a_i) \to X(b_1) \tensor \cdots \tensor X(b_k)$$

We let $Mod(N,\cl{C})$ denote the set of models.

There should be a notion of morphism of models (natural
transformation-ish), but let that lie for now.

The idea seems to be that this should be a correspondence between a
suitable category of nets and a category of suitably monoidal
categories. Since the inputs and outputs to a transition are unordered,
one probably wants to impose some symmetricity conditions on the
monoidal categories.

It seems that people want this correspondence to come from an
adjunction. The paper raises additional desiderata such as computational
tractability, which are harder for me to analyze at the moment.

One problem with the definition above is that it relies implicitly on an
arbitrary choice of ordering of inputs/outputs to each transition. This
may be soluble by (imposing some symmetricity and) choosing $n$-ary
symmetric tensor products $(\cl{C}^n)_{\Sigma_n} \to \cl{C}$ - but this
is either another arbitrary choice, or it introduces an unfornutate
homotopical flavor to the construction, which we would like to avoid.

The methods of the paper seems to provide just a way to use Petri nets
to manipulate (free) symmetric monoidal categories, but not a
particularly rich correspondence.

The categories considered are strictly monoidal and symmetric, but not
strictly symmetric. They are freely generated by an object set and a
morphism set.
