---
title: Survey of chromatic htpy
---
See [@BarBea].

Let $\cl{C}$ be a stably symmetric monoidal . Then a subcategory
$\cl{D}$ is *a thick $\tensor$-ideal* if

1.  $\cl{D}$ is stable under extensions, i.e. if

    is Cartesian and $A, C \in \cl{D}$, then also $B \in \cl{D}$.

2.  $\cl{D}$ is stable under suspension, desuspension and retracts.

3.  If $A \in \cl{D}$, then $A \tensor B \in \cl{D}$ for all $B$. (This
    is being an ideal).

If $A \tensor B \in \cl{D}$ implies either $A \in \cl{D}$ or
$B \in \cl{D}$, and if $\cl{D}$ is a proper subcategory, we say that
$\cl{D}$ is a *prime*.

Studying the system (the *spectrum*) of primes in a stable symmetric
monoidal `\icat `{=latex}is the subject of tensor-triangulated geometry,
an idea due to Balmer.

If we calculate this for *the* stable category, after $p$-localizing, we
get the following:

Let $\Sp^\omega_{(p)}$ be the category of compact $p$-local spectra.
Then there exists an increasing sequence of thick subcategories
$$\Sp^\omega_{(p)}\cl{C}_0 \supset \cl{C}_1 \supset \dots \supset (0)$$
which is furthermore *exhaustive*, i.e. all thick subcategories are
$\cl{C}_n$ for some $n \geq 0$.

One can show that the $\cl{C}_n$ for $n>0$ are all primes.

$K(n)$, $L_n$ and $C_n$
-----------------------

$\cl{C}_n$ is things with support $\geq n$, i.e things so that $K(n)$ is
nontrivial (and hence all higher $K$ are nontrivial).

Now consider localizing with $K(1) \oplus K(2) \dots K(n)$. For $X$ be
acyclic here, we must have $X \tensor K(i)$ trivial for each $i \leq n$.
Hence the support is concentrated above degree $n$. So localizing with
respect to this spectrum, i.e $L_n$, says that you have no nontrivial
maps from things supported above degree $n$.

Note that one could also have taking the quotient by $C_n$, i.e things
with support above degree $n$.

---
title: Complex orientable cohomology theories
---
Let $E$ be a cohomology theory, or equivalently a spectrum. So $E$ is a
functor $E: \cl{H} \to Ab_\Z$, satisfying certain properties. $E$ is
called multiplicative if it factors through the forgetful functor
$U: Ring_\Z \to Ab_\Z$ (Properly, a multiplicative structure on $E$ is a
choice of factorization). We will later have to interpret this as
something happening in the stable homotopy category, but let's not worry
about that yet.

The inclusion of the two-skeleton $S^2 \to \C P^\infty$ gives a map
$\tilde{E}^2(\C P^\infty) \to \tilde{E}^2(S^2) = \tilde{E}^0(S^0)$,
which has a canonical unit element (the unit of the multiplication).
This element generates $\tilde{E}^2(S^2)$, and a *complex orientation*
of $E$ is a choice of lift
$t \in \tilde{E}^2(\C P^\infty) \subset E^2(\C P^\infty)$. We call this
element $t$. One can show that if $t$ is a complex orientation of $E$,
then for each $n$ it determines an isomorphism
$E^*(\ast)[t]/(t^{n+1}) \cong E^*(\C P^n)$ By taking the colimit as
$n \to \infty$, we see that $E^*(\C P^\infty) \cong E^*(\ast)[[t]]$.

Note that if $E^*(\ast)$ is not bounded below, this implies that e.g.
$E^0(\C P^\infty)$ will contain elements like
$ta_1 + t^2a_2 + t^3a_3 + \cdots$, as long as $|a_i| = -2i$.

Now, $\C P^\infty$ classifies complex line bundles. There's a natural
transformation
$[-, \C P^\infty \times \C P^\infty] \to [-, \C P^\infty]$ given by
tensoring line bundles. By yoneda this is classified by a map
$\C P^\infty \times \C P^\infty \to \C P^\infty$. Passing to $E$, we
first note that
$E^*(\C P^\infty \times \C P^\infty) = E^*(\ast)[[u,v]]$. We now get a
map $$E^*(\ast)[[t] \to E^*(\ast)[[u,v]]$$ This maps $t$ to a power
series $f(u,v)$. This power series is canonically determined by $E$
along with the multiplicative and complex oriented structure. However,
it's not an arbitrary power series. At the very least, the
commutativity, associativity and unitality of $\tensor$ forces it to be
a formal group law, i.e. to satisfy these conditions:

-   $f(f(u,v),z) = f(u,f(v,z))$

-   $f(u,v) = f(v,u)$

-   $f(u,0) = f(0,u) = u$

---
title: Lazard's Theorem
---
A formal power series over $R$ in two variables is just a system of
coefficients $a_{i,j} \in R, i,j\geq 0$. These are classified by maps
$\Z[x_{i,j} | i,j \geq 0] \to R$. The condition that such a map
classifies a formal group law can be phrased as certain polynomial
equations in the coefficients. For instance, the condition that
$f(u,0) = u$ means that $a_{1,0} = 1$ and $a_{i,0} = 0$ otherwise. The
commutativity implies $a_{i,j} = a_{j,i}$ and so on. Quotienting out by
the ideal generated by all these equations, we obtain
$L = \Z[x_{i,j} | i,j\geq 0] /I$, the *Lazard ring*, which classifies
formal group laws. First, we will give $L$ a grading by letting
$x_{i,j}$ have degree $2(i+j-1)$. (We have to check that the grading
descends to the quotient, this is omitted). This grading is determined
by the requirement that if $x,y$ have degree $-2$, and $f$ is classified
by a *graded* map $L \to R$, then also $f(x,y)$ have degree $-2$. This
is a property shared by the power series we're interested in from
topology.

Let $\Z[b_1, b_2, \dots]$ be a polynomial ring. Define the power series
$g(x) = x + b_1x^2 + b_2x^3 + \dots$ over $\Z[b_1, \dots]$. Then it's
simple to check that $g(g\inv(x) + g\inv(y))$ defines a formal group law
over $\Z[b_1, \dots]$. This is classified by a map
$\phi: L \to \Z[b_1, \dots]$, which is graded if we let $b_i$ have
degree $2i$. We will see that this map is an isomorphism over the
rational numbers.

Let $J$ be the ideal in $\Z[b_1, \dots]$ of elements with positive
degree (i.e $(b_1, b_2 \dots)$) Let $I$ be the ideal in $L$ of elements
with positive degree.

$J/J^2$ can be identified with the free abelian group on generators
$b_i$. Note that $I/I^2$ inherits a grading from $L$. The main step of
the proof is this lemma:

For $n>0$, $\phi$ induces an injection
$(I/I^2)_{2n} \to (J/J^2)_{2n} \cong \Z$. If $n+1$ is a prime power
$p^f$, the image is $p\Z$, otherwise it is $\Z$.

We delay the proof a bit. First note some consequences.

$(I/I^2)_{2n}$ is isomorphic to $\Z$.

In particular, we can choose homogenous elements $t_n \in L_{2n}$
lifting generators. This gives a (graded) map
$\theta: \Z[t_1, t_2, \dots] \to L_{2n}$.

$\theta$ is surjective

We proceed by induction on $n$, proving that the image of theta contains
$L_{2n}$. The case $n=0$ is clear. By inductive hypothesis, the image of
$\theta$ contains $L_{2n-2}$. Then it also contains $I^2_{2n}$, since
each element in $I^2_{2n}$ is a sum of products of elements with
positive degree - hence each degree can be at most $2n-2$. Since the
image of $\theta$ contains a (lift of a) generator for $(I/I^2)_{2n}$,
it contains $I_{2n} = L_{2n}$

The following result then completes the proof of Lazard's theorem:

The map $\Z[t_1, \dots] \to L \to \Z[b_1, \dots]$ is an injection. In
particular, $\theta$ is an injection

Since polynomial rings are torsion-free, they inject into their
rationalizations. Therefore, the lemma is an immediate consequence of
the fact that the rationalization
$\psi_\Q: \Q[t_1,\dots] \to \Q[b_1,\dots]$ of the above map is an
isomorphism, which we now prove. Let $J' \subset \Q[t_1,\dots]$ be the
ideal generated by $t_1,t_2,\dots$. Then $J'/J'^2$ is ismorphic to the
free $\Q$-vector space generated by $t_1, t_2 \dots$. By the above,
$\psi_\Q$ induces a surjection on each graded piece
$(J'/J'^2)_{2n} \to (J/J^2)_{2n}$ Repeating the previous proof, we see
that $\psi_\Q$ is surjective. Since the vector spaces have the same
dimension in each graded degree, it must be injective as well.

We are now reduced to giving the proof of the first lemma.

---
title: The spectrum MU
---
In this section, we will study a multiplicative spectrum $MU$ which
classifies complex orientations, in the sense that there is a bijection
between maps $MU \to E$ of multiplicative spectra and complex
orientations on $E$.

Let's first discuss some implications of this statement. We have
described above a natural transformation
$CpxOr(E) \to FGL(\pi_*(E)) = Hom(L,\pi_*(E))$ (we haven't verified any
of the things we need to verify, but whatever). (These are both functors
defined on *multiplicative spectra/cohomology theories*, mind). The
claimed universal property of $MU$ is that $Hom(MU,E) \simeq CpxOr(E)$
naturally. Hence we get a map $Hom(MU,-) \to Hom(L,\pi_*(-))$. This
produces a map $L \to \pi_*(MU)$ by plugging in the identity. Another
way of saying this is that, by Yoneda, the isomorphism
$Hom(MU,-) \cong CpxOr(-)$ is reprented by some universal element
$CpxOr(MU)$, which we can then push forward to get a formal group law on
$\pi_*(MU)$ i.e. such a map $L \to \pi_*(MU)$
