---
title: Friday, 2017-10-20 {#20171020:S}
---
Lifting Calculus and Saturated Classes
--------------------------------------

Let $\cl{C}$ be a category.

-   If $f:X \to Y$ and $g:Z \to W$ are morphisms in $\cl{C}$, we write
    $f \boxslash g$ if every diagram of this sort admits a dashed arrow
    making it commute:

    We say that $f$ has the left lifting property with respect to $g$,
    or $g$ the right with respect to $f$, or merely that $f$ lifts
    against $g$.

-   If $F$ and $G$ are collections of morphisms, we write $F \lift G$ if
    $f \lift g$ for every $f\in F, g\in G$. Similarly, define
    $f \lift G$ and $F \lift g$.

-   If $A$ is a collection of morphisms, write $^\lift A$ for
    $\{f \mid f \lift a \text{ for all $a\in A$}\}$. Similarly define
    $A^\lift$. These are called respectively the left and right
    complement of $A$.

Typically, $f$ is some sort of inclusion, and we think of the lift as an
extension of the map $X \to Z$.

Let $\cl{C}$ be a category admitting all colimits. A class of morphisms
$S$ in $\cl{C}$ is said to be saturated (or weakly saturated) if it:

(1) contains all isomorphisms

(2) is closed under cobase change (i.e. pushouts)

(3) is closed under transfinite composition

(4) is closed under coproducts

(5) is closed under retracts

Closed under transfinite composition means that if $\alpha$ is some
(possibly finite) ordinal, and $X: \alpha \to \cl{C}$ is a functor such
that for every $i\neq 0$ the natural map $\colim_{j<i}X(j) \to X(i)$ is
in $S$, then the induced map $X(0) \to \colim_{i\in \alpha}X(i)$ is in
$S$. Specializing to $\alpha = [2]$, we recover "closed under
composition".

If $S_i$ is a family of saturated classes, $\cap_i S_i$ is saturated. So
given any class of maps $S$, it makes sense to define $\bar{S}$ as the
smallest saturated class containing $S$.

Dualizing this definition, we can define a *cosaturated* class of
morphisms. This notion is not used as commonly, though.

Let $\cl{C}$ be a category with all colimits, and $B$ a class of
morphisms. Then $^\lift B$ is saturated. As a corollary, $B^\lift$ is
cosaturated.

If $S$ is a set of morphisms in $sSet$, any morphism admits a
factorization $f=pj$ with $j \in \bar{S}$ and $p \in S^\lift$

This is a highly non-trivial theorem. It is essential for the proof that
$S$ be a *set* and not a general class. Certain non-general properties
of $sSet$ are also used.

In $sSet$, $\bar{S} = \prescript{\lift}{}{(S^\lift)}$

Clearly $\bar{S} \subset \prescript{\lift}{}{(S^\lift)}$. For the other
inclusion, take $f$ with $f \lift S^\lift$. Factorize $f = pj$ with
$j \in \bar{S}, p \in S^\lift$. Now we have this diagram:

Since $\bar{S}$ is closed under retracts, this implies $f \in \bar{S}$.

A *weak factorization system* in a category $\cl{C}$ is a pair of
classes of maps $(L,R)$ so that $L = \prescript{\lift}{}{R}, R=L^\lift$,
and every map $f$ in $\cl{C}$ can be factorized as $f = rl$ with
$r\in R, l\in L$.

Because of the small object argument, in $sSet$, this amounts to the
requirement that $L$ be saturated and $R = L^\lift$.

-   ${\rm InnHorn}$ is the class of inner horn inclusions

-   ${\rm Cell}$ is the class of boundary inclusions

-   $\ol{\rm InnHorn}$ is called the class of inner anodyne extensions.

-   ${\rm InnFib} = {\rm InnHorn}^\lift = \ol{\rm InnHorn}^\lift$

$\ol{\rm Cell}$ is precisely the class of monomorphisms.

With these definitions, the quasicategories are precisely the objects
with ${\rm InnHorn} \lift X \to \ast$. Also, $f \lift X \to \ast$ for
any inner anodyne map $f$.

pushout-product, pullback-power
-------------------------------

Given maps $f:A \to B, g:K \to L, h: X \to Y$ of simplicial sets, define
the *pushout-product* $f \boxempty g$as the dashed(induced) arrow in the
following diagram:

Dually, define the *pullback-power* $h^{\boxempty g}$ as the dashed
arrow in this diagram:

We note that surjectivity on vertices for the pullback-power is
precisely the property that $g \lift h$. We therefore think of the
pullback-power as an "enriched" version of lifting - and the target as a
space that "parameterizes" lifting problems.

If $h: X \to \ast$ is a map to a terminal object, $h\pbpw{g}$ is just
the restriction $\Map(L,X) \to \Map(K,X)$ If $f: \emptyset \to B$ is a
map from an initial object, $f \popr g$ is just the map
$B \times K \to B \times L$. If $g: \emptyset \to L$ is a map from an
initial object, $h\pbpw{g}$ is the obvious map
$\Map(L,X) \to \Map(L,Y)$.

$f \popr g \lift h$ if and only if $f \lift h\pbpw{g}$

Compare the lifting problems using the product/map adjunction

Using the remark above, with $K=\emptyset, Y = \ast$, we get
$(A \times L \to B \times L) \lift (X \to \ast) \Leftrightarrow (A \to B) \lift (\Map(L,X) \to \ast)$.

Taking $X$ to be a quasicategory, we see that $\Map(L,X)$ will be a
quasicategory, if we can only prove that $(A \times L \to B \times L)$
is inner anodyne as long as $A \to B$ is. This is a consequence of the
following, taking $\emptyset \to L \in \ol{\rm Cell}$ as the right map:

$\ol{\rm InnHorn} \popr \ol{\rm Cell} \subseteq \ol{\rm InnHorn}$.

In general, $\ol{S}\popr \ol{T} \subseteq \ol{S \popr T}$.
