Friday, 2017-08-11 {#2017811:S}
==================

There is a bijection between irreducible closed subsets and points on a
scheme, given by $p \mapsto \overline{\{p\}}$.

We first prove this for an affine scheme $A$. Let $p\in A$ be a point
and consider $X = V(p) = \overline{\{p\}}$. Suppose $X = Y \cup Z$, $Y$
and $Z$ closed. Then either $Y$ or $Z$ must contain $y$, and hence all
of $X$. So $X$ is irreducible.

Now suppose $X \subset A$ is irreducible closed and consider
$s = I(X) = \bigcap_{p \in X} p$. We must show that this is a prime
ideal. Suppose $ab \in s$. Then also $ab \in p$ for all $p \in X$. Now
consider $V(a) \cup X$ and $V(b) \cup X$. Both are closed. Since each
$p \in X$ is prime and contains $ab$, each $p$ contains either $a$ or
$b$, so the union of these sets is $X$. Hence one must equal $X$, so $s$
contains either $a$ or $b$ - hence it is prime.

This is sufficient to establish the bijection, as $I$ and $V$ are known
to be mutual inverses under even weaker assumptions ($p$ radical and $X$
closed).

Now suppose $S$ is any scheme. Let $X \subset A$ be an irreducible
closed subset. Let $S = \bigcup_{i\in I} A_i$, where each $A_i$ is an
affine scheme. Choose an arbitrary $i$ and consider
$\overline{X \cap A_i} \cup \overline{X \cap B_i}$, where
$B_i = \bigcup_{j \neq i} A_j$. Clearly this equals $X$, so one of these
sets must equal $X$. Using Zorn's lemma, there must exist a minimal
subset $J\subset I$ so that $\overline{X \cap \bigcup_{i\in J}A_i} = X$.
By the above, such a subset must be singleton, so we can find $i$ s.t.
$X = \overline{X \cap A_i}$. Now $A_i$ is affine, so $X \cap A_I$ is the
closure (in $A_i$) of some point in $A_i$. Hence $X$ is the closure in
$S$ of this point, completing the proof.
